1	the u.s. agriculture department reported the farmer-owned reserve national five-day average price through february 25 as follows (dlrs/bu-sorghum cwt) - natl loan release call avge rate-x level price price wheat 2.55 2.40 iv 4.65 -- v 4.65 -- vi 4.45 -- corn 1.35 1.92 iv 3.15 3.15 v 3.25 -- x - 1986 rates. natl loan release call avge rate-x level price price oats 1.24 0.99 v 1.65 -- barley n.a. 1.56 iv 2.55 2.55 v 2.65 -- sorghum 2.34 3.25-y iv 5.36 5.36 v 5.54 -- reserves i, ii and iii have matured. level iv reflects grain entered after oct 6, 1981 for feedgrain and after july 23, 1981 for wheat. level v wheat/barley after 5/14/82, corn/sorghum after 7/1/82. level vi covers wheat entered after january 19, 1984. x-1986 rates. y-dlrs per cwt (100 lbs). n.a.-not available. reuter
1	the commodity credit corporation (ccc) announced 1.5 mln dlrs in credit guarantees previously earmarked to cover sales of dry edible beans to honduras have been switched to cover sales of white corn, the u.s. agriculture department said. the department said the action reduces coverage for sales of dry edible beans to 500,000 dlrs and creates the new line of 1.5 mln dlrs for sales of white corn. all sales under the credit guarantee line must be registered and shipped by september 30, 1987, it said. reuter
1	the agricultural stabilization and conservation service (ascs) has established these unit values for commodities offered from government stocks through redemption of commodity credit corporation commodity certificates, effective through the next business day. price per bushel is in u.s. dollars. sorghum is priced per cwt, corn yellow grade only. wheat hrw hrs srw sww durum chicago -- 3.04 2.98 -- -- ill. track -- -- 3.16 -- -- toledo -- 3.04 2.98 2.90 -- memphis -- -- 3.05 -- -- peoria -- -- 3.11 -- -- denver 2.62 2.63 -- -- -- evansville -- -- 2.99 -- -- cincinnati -- -- 2.96 -- -- minneapolis 2.65 2.71 -- -- 3.70 baltimore/ norf./phil. -- -- 3.06 2.98 -- kansas city 2.87 -- 3.17 -- -- st. louis 3.03 -- 3.03 -- -- amarillo/ lubbock 2.64 -- -- -- -- hrw hrs srw sww durum lou. gulf -- -- 3.16 -- -- portland/ seattle 3.07 3.08 -- 3.10 3.70 stockton 2.78 -- -- -- -- l.a. 3.23 -- -- -- 4.05 duluth 2.65 2.71 -- -- 3.70 tex. gulf 3.10 -- 3.16 -- -- corn brly oats rye soyb sorg chicago 1.47 -- -- -- 4.81 2.49 ill. track 1.49 2.04 -- -- 4.85 2.52 toledo 1.41 2.04 1.50 -- 4.78 2.39 memphis 1.59 1.95 1.71 -- 4.90 2.86 peoria 1.51 --- -- -- 4.80 2.60 denver 1.56 1.56 -- -- -- 2.54 evnsvlle 1.54 2.04 1.50 2.17 4.90 2.61 cinci 1.52 2.04 1.50 2.17 4.85 2.58 mpls 1.34 1.75 1.50 1.85 4.68 -- balt/nor/ phil 1.70 1.80 -- -- 4.98 3.12 kc 1.49 1.56 1.64 -- 4.76 2.58 st lo 1.54 -- 1.66 -- 4.90 2.91 amarlo/ lubbck 1.84 1.40 -- -- 4.75 2.92 lou gulf 1.73 -- -- -- 5.05 3.12 port/ seattle 1.87 2.10 1.68 -- -- -- stockton 2.18 2.23 2.10 -- -- 4.00 la 2.54 2.50 -- -- -- 4.38 duluth 1.34 1.75 1.50 1.85 4.68 -- tex gulf 1.73 1.48 1.73 -- 5.05 3.12 reuter
1	there were seven grain ships loading and six ships were waiting to load at portland, according to the portland merchants exchange. reuter
1	u.s. grain carloadings totaled 26,108 cars in the week ended february 21, down 2.2 pct from the previous week but 22.8 pct above the corresponding week a year ago, the association of american railroads reported. grain mill product loadings in the week totalled 11,382 cars, down 1.8 pct from the previous week but 7.6 pct above the same week a year earlier, the association said. reuter
0	diamond shamrock corp said that effective today it had cut its contract prices for crude oil by 1.50 dlrs a barrel. the reduction brings its posted price for west texas intermediate to 16.00 dlrs a barrel, the copany said. "the price reduction today was made in the light of falling oil product prices and a weak crude oil market," a company spokeswoman said. diamond is the latest in a line of u.s. oil companies that have cut its contract, or posted, prices over the last two days citing weak oil markets. reuter
1	a study on grain certificates due out shortly from the government accounting office (gao) could show that certificates cost the government 10 to 15 pct more than cash outlays, administration and industry sources said. analysis that the gao has obtained from the agriculture department and the office of management and budget suggests that certificates cost more than cash payments, a gao official told reuters. gao is preparing the certificate study at the specific request of sen. jesse helms (r-n.c.), former chairman of the senate agriculture committee. the report, which will focus on the cost of certificates compared to cash, is scheduled to be released in mid march. the cost of certificates, said the gao source, depends on the program's impact on the usda loan program. if gao determines that certificates encourage more loan entries or cause more loan forfeitures, then the net cost of the program would go up. however, if it is determined that certificates have caused the government grain stockpile to decrease, the cost effect of certificates would be less. gao will not likely suggest whether the certificates program should be slowed or expanded, the gao official said. but a negative report on certificates "will fuel the fire against certificates and weigh heavily on at least an increase in the certificate program," an agricultural consultant said. the omb is said to be against any expansion of the program, while usda remains firmly committed to it. reuter
0	opec may be forced to meet before a scheduled june session to readdress its production cutting agreement if the organization wants to halt the current slide in oil prices, oil industry analysts said. "the movement to higher oil prices was never to be as easy as opec thought. they may need an emergency meeting to sort out the problems," said daniel yergin, director of cambridge energy research associates, cera. analysts and oil industry sources said the problem opec faces is excess oil supply in world oil markets. "opec's problem is not a price problem but a production issue and must be addressed in that way," said paul mlotok, oil analyst with salomon brothers inc. he said the market's earlier optimism about opec and its ability to keep production under control have given way to a pessimistic outlook that the organization must address soon if it wishes to regain the initiative in oil prices. but some other analysts were uncertain that even an emergency meeting would address the problem of opec production above the 15.8 mln bpd quota set last december. "opec has to learn that in a buyers market you cannot have deemed quotas, fixed prices and set differentials," said the regional manager for one of the major oil companies who spoke on condition that he not be named. "the market is now trying to teach them that lesson again," he added. david t. mizrahi, editor of mideast reports, expects opec to meet before june, although not immediately. however, he is not optimistic that opec can address its principal problems. "they will not meet now as they try to take advantage of the winter demand to sell their oil, but in late march and april when demand slackens," mizrahi said. but mizrahi said that opec is unlikely to do anything more than reiterate its agreement to keep output at 15.8 mln bpd." analysts said that the next two months will be critical for opec's ability to hold together prices and output. "opec must hold to its pact for the next six to eight weeks since buyers will come back into the market then," said dillard spriggs of petroleum analysis ltd in new york. but bijan moussavar-rahmani of harvard university's energy and environment policy center said that the demand for opec oil has been rising through the first quarter and this may have prompted excesses in its production. "demand for their (opec) oil is clearly above 15.8 mln bpd and is probably closer to 17 mln bpd or higher now so what we are seeing characterized as cheating is opec meeting this demand through current production," he told reuters in a telephone interview. reuter
1	the u.s. agriculture department is not actively considering offering subsidized wheat to the soviet union under the export enhancement program (eep), senior usda officials said. however, grain trade analysts said the proposal has not been ruled out and that an offer might be made, though not in the very near future. "the grain companies are trying to get this fired up again," an aide to agriculture secretary richard lyng said. "but there just isn't much talk about it, informally or formally." most analysts interviewed by reuters were more confident than usda officials that bonus wheat would be offered to the soviets, even though u.s. officials did not make such an offer when they held grain talks with soviet counterparts earlier this week. but administration and private sources agreed that if the reagan administration did decide to offer subsidized wheat to moscow, it could take several months. "i just don't see any proposal like that sailing through any interagency process," the aide to lyng said. "an export enhancement offer is not consummated overnight," said one former usda official, who noted that the administration took three months to decide in favor of selling china wheat under the subsidy program. an official representing a large grain trade company said deliberations within usda might be nudged along by members of congress, a number of whom urged usda this week to make a wheat subsidy offer to the soviets. but lyng's aide said that during a day-long visit to capitol hill yesterday, house members did not press the secretary on the subsidy question a single time. the administration's interagency trade policy review group, comprised of subcabinet-level officials, has not been asked to clear a request to offer moscow wheat under the eep, officials at the u.s. trade representative's office said. in their talks this week, the two sides discussed the administration's previous eep offer but did not talk about any new initiative. one usda official who took part in the consultations this week described them as an exchange of "calm, basic, factual economics." another usda official said there was "not even an informal suggestion or hint" that the soviets would live up to their pledge to buy four mln tonnes of wheat this year if they were granted more favorable terms. usda and private sources agreed that consideration of an eep initiative by interagency review groups likely would be delayed because of disarray within the white house stemming from the iran arms affair. reuter
0	texaco canada said it lowered the contract price it will pay for crude oil 64 canadian cts a barrel, effective today. the decrease brings the company's posted price for the benchmark grade, edmonton/swann hills light sweet, to 22.26 canadian dlrs a bbl. texaco canada last changed its crude oil postings on feb 19. reuter
1	the u.s. agriculture department probably will not offer a two dlr per bushel bonus payment to corn farmers for any erodible cropland they enrolled in the conservation reserve program last year, an aide to usda secretary richard lyng said. sen. charles grassley (r-iowa) said yesterday that lyng had indicated he would consider giving those farmers the same two dlr bonus offered corn farmers who are signing up for the 1987 program this month. but the aide to lyng said it was doubtful that the department would offer a retroactive bonus to farmers who enrolled land in the 10-year conservation reserve last year. "how are you going to stop the tide," he said, referring to demands that would follow from other commodity groups. reuter
0	marathon petroleum co said it reduced the contract price it will pay for all grades of crude oil one dlr a barrel, effective today. the decrease brings marathon's posted price for both west texas intermediate and west texas sour to 16.50 dlrs a bbl. the south louisiana sweet grade of crude was reduced to 16.85 dlrs a bbl. the company last changed its crude postings on jan 12. reuter
1	u.s. farmers who in the past have grown oats for their own use but failed to certify to the government that they had done so probably will be allowed to continue planting that crop and be eligible for corn program benefits, an aide to agriculture secretary richard lyng said. currently a farmer, to be eligible for corn program benefits, must restrict his plantings of other program crops to the acreage base for that crop. several members of congress from iowa have complained that farmers who inadvertantly failed to certify that they had grown oats for their own use in the past now are being asked to halt oats production or lose corn program benefits. usda likely will allow historic oats farmers to plant oats but not extend the exemption to all farmers, lyng's aide said. reuter
0	houston oil trust said that independent petroleum engineers completed an annual study that estimates the trust's future net revenues from total proved reserves at 88 mln dlrs and its discounted present value of the reserves at 64 mln dlrs. based on the estimate, the trust said there may be no money available for cash distributions to unitholders for the remainder of the year. it said the estimates reflect a decrease of about 44 pct in net reserve revenues and 39 pct in discounted present value compared with the study made in 1985. reuter
1	thailand exported 84,960 tonnes of rice in the week ended february 24, up from 80,498 the previous week, the commerce ministry said. it said government and private exporters shipped 27,510 and 57,450 tonnes respectively. private exporters concluded advance weekly sales for 79,448 tonnes against 79,014 the previous week. thailand exported 689,038 tonnes of rice between the beginning of january and february 24, up from 556,874 tonnes during the same period last year. it has commitments to export another 658,999 tonnes this year. reuter
1	indonesia"s agriculture sector will grow by just 1.0 pct in calendar 1987, against an estimated 2.4 pct in 1986 as the production of some commodities stagnates or declines, the u.s. embassy said in a report. production of indonesia"s staple food, rice, is forecast to fall to around 26.3 mln tonnes from an embassy estimate of 26.58 mln tonnes in 1986, according to the annual report on indonesia"s agricultural performance. the government officially estimates 1986 rice production at 26.7 mln tonnes, with a forecast 27.3 mln tonnes output in 1987. the report says wheat imports are likely to fall to 1.5 mln tonnes in calendar 1987 from 1.69 mln tonnes in 1986 because of a drawdown on stocks. "growth prospects for agriculture in 1987 do not look promising as rice production is forecast to decline and the production of sugarcane, rubber and copra show little or no gain," the report says. "the modest overall increase which is expected will be due to significant gains in production of corn soybeans, palm oil and palm kernels." constraints to significant overall increases in agricultural output include a shortage of disease resistant seeds, limited fertile land, insect pests and a reluctance by farmers to shift from rice production to other crops, the report underlines. the fall in rice production is caused by an outbreak of pests known as "wereng" or brown plant hoppers in 1986 which largely offset gains in yields. the outbreak has forced the government to ban the use of 57 insecticides on rice because it was believed the wereng are now resistant to these varieties, and to use lower-yielding, more resistant rice types. the government is depending on increased production of export commodities such as coffee, tea, rubber, plywood and palm oil to offset revenue losses brought on by falling crude oil prices. palm oil production is expected to increase by over 7.0 pct in 1987 to 1.45 mln tonnes from 1.35 mln, with exports rising to an estimated 720,000 tonnes from 695,000 tonnes in 1986, the report says. but while production of soybeans in 1987/88 (oct-sept) will rise to 1.075 mln tonnes from 980,000 in 1986/87, imports will also rise to supply a new soybean crushing plant. the report says that imports of wheat, soybeans, soybean meal and cotton are not likely to decline as a result of last september"s 31 pct devaluation of the rupiah because of a rise in domestic demand. the report said that indonesia"s overall economic performance in calendar 1986 was about zero or even a slight negative growth rate, the lowest rate of growth since the mid-1960s. it compares with 1.9 pct growth in 1985 and 6.7 pct in 1984. the dramatic fall in oil prices last year was responsible for the slump. reuter
0	kuwait"s oil minister, in remarks published today, said there were no plans for an emergency opec meeting to review oil policies after recent weakness in world oil prices. sheikh ali al-khalifa al-sabah was quoted by the local daily al-qabas as saying: "none of the opec members has asked for such a meeting." he denied kuwait was pumping above its quota of 948,000 barrels of crude daily (bpd) set under self-imposed production limits of the 13-nation organisation. traders and analysts in international oil markets estimate opec is producing up to one mln bpd above a ceiling of 15.8 mln bpd agreed in geneva last december. they named kuwait and the united arab emirates, along with the much smaller producer ecuador, among those producing above quota. kuwait, they said, was pumping 1.2 mln bpd. "this rumour is baseless. it is based on reports which said kuwait has the ability to exceed its share. they suppose that because kuwait has the ability, it will do so," the minister said. sheikh ali has said before that kuwait had the ability to produce up to 4.0 mln bpd. "if we can sell more than our quota at official prices, while some countries are suffering difficulties marketing their share, it means we in kuwait are unusually clever," he said. he was referring apparently to the gulf state of qatar, which industry sources said was selling less than 180,000 bpd of its 285,000 bpd quota, because buyers were resisting official prices restored by opec last month pegged to a marker of 18 dlrs per barrel. prices in new york last week dropped to their lowest levels this year and almost three dollars below a three-month high of 19 dollars a barrel. sheikh ali also delivered "a challenge to any international oil company that declared kuwait sold below official prices." because it was charging its official price, of 16.67 dlrs a barrel, it had lost custom, he said but did not elaborate. however, kuwait had guaranteed markets for its oil because of its local and international refining facilities and its own distribution network abroad, he added. he reaffirmed that the planned meeting march 7 of opec"s differentials committee has been postponed until the start of april at the request of certain of the body"s members. ecuador"s deputy energy minister fernando santos alvite said last wednesday his debt-burdened country wanted opec to assign a lower official price for its crude, and was to seek this at talks this month of opec"s pricing committee. referring to pressure by oil companies on opec members, in apparent reference to difficulties faced by qatar, he said: "we expected such pressure. it will continue through march and april." but he expected the situation would later improve. reuter
0	indonesia appears to be nearing a political crossroads over measures to deregulate its protected economy, the u.s. embassy says in a new report. to counter falling oil revenues, the government has launched a series of measures over the past nine months to boost exports outside the oil sector and attract new investment. indonesia, the only asian member of opec and a leading primary commodity producer, has been severely hit by last year"s fall in world oil prices, which forced it to devalue its currency by 31 pct in september. but the u.s. embassy report says president suharto"s government appears to be divided over what direction to lead the economy. "(it) appears to be nearing a crossroads with regard to deregulation, both as it pertains to investments and imports," the report says. it primarily assesses indonesia"s agricultural sector, but also reviews the country"s general economic performance. it says that while many government officials and advisers are recommending further relaxation, "there are equally strong pressures being exerted to halt all such moves." "this group strongly favours an import substitution economy," the report says. indonesia"s economic changes have been welcomed by the world bank and international bankers as steps in the right direction, though they say crucial areas of the economy like plastics and steel remain highly protected, and virtual monopolies. three sets of measures have been announced since last may, which broadened areas for foreign investment, reduced trade restrictions and liberalised imports. the report says indonesia"s economic growth in calendar 1986 was probably about zero, and the economy may even have contracted a bit. "this is the lowest rate of growth since the mid-1960s," the report notes. indonesia, the largest country in south-east asia with a population of 168 million, is facing general elections in april. but the report hold out little hope for swift improvement in the economic outlook. "for 1987 early indications point to a slightly positive growth rate not exceeding one pct. economic activity continues to suffer due to the sharp fall in export earnings from the petroleum industry." "growth in the non-oil sector is low because of weak domestic demand coupled with excessive plant capacity, real declines in construction and trade, and a reduced level of growth in agriculture," the report states. bankers say continuation of present economic reforms is crucial for the government to get the international lending its needs. a new world bank loan of 300 mln dlrs last month in balance of payments support was given partly to help the government maintain the momentum of reform, the bank said. reuter
1	china's wheat crop this year is seriously threatened by plant pests and diseases, the new china news agency said. more than 5 mln hectares of wheat-producing land in north china could be affected because relatively warm and dry weather had allowed bacteria and insect eggs to survive the winter, the agency added. china"s ministry of agriculture, animal husbandry and fisheries has called for measures including the timely supply of pesticides to farmers to combat the threat, it said. reuter
0	saudi riyal interbank deposits were steady at yesterday's higher levels in a quiet market. traders said they were reluctant to take out new positions amidst uncertainty over whether opec will succeed in halting the current decline in oil prices. oil industry sources said yesterday several gulf arab producers had had difficulty selling oil at official opec prices but kuwait has said there are no plans for an emergency meeting of the 13-member organisation. a traditional sunday lull in trading due to the european weekend also contributed to the lack of market activity. spot-next and one-week rates were put at 6-1/4, 5-3/4 pct after quotes ranging between seven, six yesterday. one, three, and six-month deposits were quoted unchanged at 6-5/8, 3/8, 7-1/8, 6-7/8 and 7-3/8, 1/8 pct respectively. the spot riyal was quietly firmer at 3.7495/98 to the dollar after quotes of 3.7500/03 yesterday. reuter
0	the gulf oil state of qatar, recovering slightly from last year's decline in world oil prices, announced its first budget since early 1985 and projected a deficit of 5.472 billion riyals. the deficit compared with a shortfall of 7.3 billion riyals in the last published budget for 1985/86. in a statement outlining the budget for the fiscal year 1987/88 beginning today, finance and petroleum minister sheikh abdul-aziz bin khalifa al-thani said the government expected to spend 12.217 billion riyals in the period. projected expenditure in the 1985/86 budget had been 15.6 billion riyals. sheikh abdul-aziz said government revenue would be about 6.745 billion riyals, down by about 30 pct on the 1985/86 projected revenue of 9.7 billion. the government failed to publish a 1986/87 budget due to uncertainty surrounding oil revenues. sheikh abdul-aziz said that during that year the government decided to limit recurrent expenditure each month to one-twelfth of the previous fiscal year's allocations minus 15 pct. he urged heads of government departments and public institutions to help the government rationalise expenditure. he did not say how the 1987/88 budget shortfall would be covered. sheikh abdul-aziz said plans to limit expenditure in 1986/87 had been taken in order to relieve the burden placed on the country's foreign reserves. he added in 1987/88 some 2.766 billion riyals had been allocated for major projects including housing and public buildings, social services, health, education, transport and communications, electricity and water, industry and agriculture. no figure was revealed for expenditure on defence and security. there was also no projection for oil revenue. qatar, an opec member, has an output ceiling of 285,000 barrels per day. sheikh abdul-aziz said: "our expectations of positive signs regarding (oil) price trends, foremost among them opec's determination to shoulder its responsibilites and protect its wealth, have helped us make reasonable estimates for the coming year's revenue on the basis of our assigned quota." reuter
0	saudi arabian oil minister hisham nazer reiterated the kingdom's commitment to last december's opec accord to boost world oil prices and stabilise the market, the official saudi press agency spa said. asked by the agency about the recent fall in free market oil prices, nazer said saudi arabia "is fully adhering by the ... accord and it will never sell its oil at prices below the pronounced prices under any circumstance." nazer, quoted by spa, said recent pressure on free market prices "may be because of the end of the (northern hemisphere) winter season and the glut in the market." saudi arabia was a main architect of the december accord, under which opec agreed to lower its total output ceiling by 7.25 pct to 15.8 mln barrels per day (bpd) and return to fixed prices of around 18 dlrs a barrel. the agreement followed a year of turmoil on oil markets, which saw prices slump briefly to under 10 dlrs a barrel in mid-1986 from about 30 dlrs in late 1985. free market prices are currently just over 16 dlrs. nazer was quoted by the spa as saying saudi arabia's adherence to the accord was shown clearly in the oil market. he said contacts among members of opec showed they all wanted to stick to the accord. in jamaica, opec president rilwanu lukman, who is also nigerian oil minister, said the group planned to stick with the pricing agreement. "we are aware of the negative forces trying to manipulate the operations of the market, but we are satisfied that the fundamentals exist for stable market conditions," he said. kuwait's oil minister, sheikh ali al-khalifa al-sabah, said in remarks published in the emirate's daily al-qabas there were no plans for an emergency opec meeting to review prices. traders and analysts in international oil markets estimate opec is producing up to one mln bpd above the 15.8 mln ceiling. they named kuwait and the united arab emirates, along with the much smaller producer ecuador, among those producing above quota. sheikh ali denied that kuwait was over-producing. reuter
1	canadian and egyptian wheat negotiators failed to conclude an agreement on canadian wheat exports to egypt during talks last week, but the canadian team will return to cairo for further negotiations, canadian embassy officials said. an embassy official declined to identify which issues remained to be resolved and when the talks would resume. in a five-year protocol signed in 1985, cairo agreed to purchase 500,000 tonnes of canadian wheat a year. reuter
1	indonesia's wheat imports are expected to fall to 1.5 mln tonnes in calendar 1987 from 1.69 mln in 1986, the u.s. embassy's annual agriculture report said. it said the drop was expected, because there will be a drawdown on stocks built up near the end of 1986. it said wheat stocks at the end of 1986 were 390,000 tonnes, up from 223,000 at end-1985. it forecast end-1987 stocks at around 290,000 tonnes. the main suppliers in 1986 were australia (44 pct), the u.s. (29 pct), canada (12 pct), argentina (8 pct) and saudi arabia (5 pct). reuter
0	saudi crude oil output last month fell to an average of 3.5 mln barrels per day (bpd) from 3.8 mln bpd in january, gulf oil sources said. they said exports from the ras tanurah and ju'aymah terminals in the gulf fell to an average 1.9 mln bpd last month from 2.2 mln in january because of lower liftings by some customers. but the drop was much smaller than expected after gulf exports rallied in the fourth week of february to 2.5 mln bpd from 1.2 mln in the third week, the sources said. the production figures include neutral zone output but not sales from floating storage, which are generally considered part of a country's output for opec purposes. saudi arabia has an opec quota of 4.133 mln bpd under a production restraint scheme approved by the 13-nation group last december to back new official oil prices averaging 18 dlrs a barrel. the sources said the two-fold jump in exports last week appeared to be the result of buyers rushing to lift february entitlements before the month-end. last week's high export levels appeared to show continued support for official opec prices from saudi arabia's main crude customers, the four ex-partners of aramco, the sources said. the four -- exxon corp <xon>, mobil corp <mob>, texaco inc <tx> and chevron corp <chv> -- signed a long-term agreement last month to buy saudi crude for 17.52 dlrs a barrel. however the sources said the real test of saudi arabia's ability to sell crude at official prices in a weak market will come this month, when demand for petroleum products traditionally tapers off. spot prices have fallen in recent weeks to more than one dlr below opec levels. saudi arabian oil minister hisham nazer yesterday reiterated the kingdom's commitment to the december opec accord and said it would never sell below official prices. the sources said total saudi refinery throughput fell slightly in february to an average 1.1 mln bpd from 1.2 mln in january because of cuts at the yanbu and jubail export refineries. they put crude oil exports through yanbu at 100,000 bpd last month, compared to zero in january, while throughput at bahrain's refinery and neutral zone production remained steady at around 200,000 bpd each. reuter
0	deputy oil ministers from six gulf arab states will meet in bahrain today to discuss coordination of crude oil marketing, the official emirates news agency wam reported. wam said the officials would be discussing implementation of last sunday's agreement in doha by gulf cooperation council (gcc) oil ministers to help each other market their crude oil. four of the gcc states - saudi arabia, the united arab emirates (uae), kuwait and qatar - are members of the organiaation of petroleum exporting countries (opec) and some face stiff buyer resistance to official opec prices. reuter
0	saudi arabian oil minister hisham nazer reiterated the kingdom's commitment to last december's opec accord to boost world oil prices and stabilize the market, the official saudi press agency spa said. asked by the agency about the recent fall in free market oil prices, nazer said saudi arabia "is fully adhering by the ... accord and it will never sell its oil at prices below the pronounced prices under any circumstance." saudi arabia was a main architect of december pact under which opec agreed to cut its total oil output ceiling by 7.25 pct and return to fixed prices of around 18 dollars a barrel. reuter
0	kuwait's oil minister said in a newspaper interview that there were no plans for an emergency opec meeting after the recent weakness in world oil prices. sheikh ali al-khalifa al-sabah was quoted by the local daily al-qabas as saying that "none of the opec members has asked for such a meeting." he also denied that kuwait was pumping above its opec quota of 948,000 barrels of crude daily (bpd). crude oil prices fell sharply last week as international oil traders and analysts estimated the 13-nation opec was pumping up to one million bpd over its self-imposed limits. reuter
0	the port of philadelphia was closed when a cypriot oil tanker, seapride ii, ran aground after hitting a 200-foot tower supporting power lines across the river, a coast guard spokesman said. he said there was no oil spill but the ship is lodged on rocks opposite the hope creek nuclear power plant in new jersey. he said the port would be closed until today when they hoped to refloat the ship on the high tide. after delivering oil to a refinery in paulsboro, new jersey, the ship apparently lost its steering and hit the power transmission line carrying power from the nuclear plant to the state of delaware. reuter
1	the french cereals intervention board, onic, left its estimate of french 1986/87 (july/june) soft wheat deliveries unchanged from its last forecast at 21.98 mln tonnes. this compared with deliveries of 24.38 mln tonnes in 1985/86 (august/july). estimated 1986/87 maize deliveries were also left unchanged from onic's previous forecast at the beginning of february at 9.91 mln tonnes against 10.77 mln the previous season. barley deliveries were also unchanged at 6.62 mln tonnes against 7.7 mln in 1985/86. reuter
1	the volume of contracts traded on the new zealand futures exchange (nzfe) reached a record 25,559 contracts in february, the international commodities clearing house (icch) said. the previous high was 22,583 contracts in december 1986. the icch said the value of the contracts traded in february was 2.90 billion n.z. dlrs. the seven contracts currently traded on the nzfe are: five-year government bonds, the share price index, 90-day bank bills, 90-day prime commercial paper, the u.s. dollar, crossbred wool, and wheat. reuter
0	a study group said the united states should increase its strategic petroleum reserve to one mln barrels as one way to deal with the present and future impact of low oil prices on the domestic oil industry. u.s. policy now is to raise the strategic reserve to 750 mln barrels, from its present 500 mln, to help protect the economy from an overseas embargo or a sharp price rise. the aspen institute for humanistic studies, a private group, also called for new research for oil exploration and development techniques. it predicted prices would remain at about 15-18 dlrs a barrel for several years and then rise to the mid 20s, with imports at about 30 pct of u.s. consumption. it said instead that such moves as increasing oil reserves and more exploration and development research would help to guard against or mitigate the risks of increased imports. reuter
1	french operators last friday requested licences to export 10,500 tonnes of free market maize, 11,950 tonnes of free market barley and 13,000 of soft wheat flour to non-ec countries, at prefixed daily (droit commun) rebates, french trade sources said. the latest requests for the maize were for export to switzerland, austria and lichtenstein at a maximum daily rebate prefixed last friday at 141 ecus a tonne against a previous 20 ecu daily rebate. the special daily rebate for maize was set in the context of a commission commitment to grant this season rebates for the export of 500,000 tonnes of french maize to non-ec countries, in compensation for concessions to the u.s. in the recent dispute over grain sales to spain. if the latest french requests are accepted as expected, this will bring the total of french maize exported in this context to 25,500 tonnes. the commission last thursday granted weekly rebates for the sale of 15,000 tonnes of free market maize to non-ec countries. requests for barley were for export to switzerland, austria and lichtenstein, ceuta and melilla at an unchanged pre-fixed restitution of 125 ecus a tonne, while requests for soft wheat flour were for export to various non-ec countries at an unchanged 178 ecus a tonne. reuter
0	a study group said the united states should increase its strategic petroleum reserve to one mln barrels as one way to deal with the present and future impact of low oil prices on the domestic oil industry. u.s. policy now is to raise the strategic reserve to 750 mln barrels, from its present 500 mln, to help protect the economy from an overseas embargo or a sharp price rise. the aspen institute for humanistic studies, a private group, also called for new research for oil exploration and development techniques. it predicted prices would remain at about 15-18 dlrs a barrel for several years and then rise to the mid 20s, with imports at about 30 pct of u.s. consumption. the study cited two basic policy paths for the nation: to protect the u.s. industry through an import fee or other such device or to accept the full economic benefits of cheap oil. but the group did not strongly back either option, saying there were benefits and drawbacks to both. it said instead that such moves as increasing oil reserves and more exploration and development research would help to guard against or mitigate the risks of increased imports. reuter
1	the canadian government is expected to announce later this week its final ruling whether u.s. corn exports to canada have injured ontario corn growers, u.s. government and farm group representatives said. the deadline for a final determination is march 7. u.s. officials said they are encouraged by the outcome in a similar case covering european pasta imports. in that case, canada decided pasta imports, which take about ten pct of the canadian market, did not injure domestic producers. u.s. corn exports represent only about five pct of the canadian market. canada slapped a 1.05 dlrs per bushel duty on u.s. corn imports in november 1986, but reduced the duty to 85 cts last month because the canadian government said u.s. subsidies to corn producers were less than canada earlier estimated. reuter
0	unocal corp's union oil co said it lowered its posted prices for crude oil one to 1.50 dlrs a barrel in the eastern region of the u.s., effective feb 26. union said a 1.50 dlrs cut brings its posted price for the u.s. benchmark grade, west texas intermediate, to 16 dlrs. louisiana sweet also was lowered 1.50 dlrs to 16.35 dlrs, the company said. no changes were made in union's posted prices for west coast grades of crude oil, the company said. reuter
0	the new york mercantile exchange set april one for the debut of a new procedure in the energy complex that will increase the use of energy futures worldwide. on april one, nymex will allow oil traders that do not hold a futures position to initiate, after the exchange closes, a transaction that can subsequently be hedged in the futures market, according to an exchange spokeswoman. "this will change the way oil is transacted in the real world," said said thomas mckiernan, mckiernan and co chairman. foreign traders will be able to hedge trades against nymex prices before the exchange opens and negotiate prices at a differential to nymex prices, mckiernan explained. the expanded program "will serve the industry because the oil market does not close when nymex does," said frank capozza, secretary of century resources inc. the rule change, which has already taken effect for platinum futures on nymex, is expected to increase the open interest and liquidity in u.s. energy futures, according to traders and analysts. currently, at least one trader in this transaction, called an exchange for physical or efp, must hold a futures position before entering into the transaction. under the new arrangement, neither party has to hold a futures position before entering into an efp and one or both parties can offset their cash transaction with a futures contract the next day, according to exchange officials. when nymex announced its proposed rule change in december, nymex president rosemary mcfadden, said, "expansion of the efp provision will add to globalization of the energy markets by providing for, in effect, 24-hour trading." the commodity futures trading commission approved the rule change in february, according to a cftc spokeswoman. reuter
0	argentine crude oil production was down 10.8 pct in january 1987 to 12.32 mln barrels, from 13.81 mln barrels in january 1986, yacimientos petroliferos fiscales said. january 1987 natural gas output totalled 1.15 billion cubic metrers, 3.6 pct higher than 1.11 billion cubic metres produced in january 1986, yacimientos petroliferos fiscales added. reuter
1	all major grain producing countries must do their part to help reduce global surpluses and the recent australian farm policy proposals are flawed, two u.s. wheat organizations said. the recent australian proposals were a good starting point for discussions, "but we do not want the australians to feel they are alone in developing an agenda for discussions" on world grain trade, the president of the national association of wheat growers, nawg, and the chairman of u.s. wheat associates said in a letter to u.s. agriculture secretary richard lyng and u.s. trade representative clayton yeutter. future discussions on international wheat trade should include three topics -- a commitment to privatization of government-run export trading entities, a commitment to public disclosure of sales and other terms if government entities are involved, and a recognition that supply reductions by the u.s. have kept world prices higher than they otherwise would be, the two organizations said while the australian proposals are welcome the two organizations said they are not in total agreement with their assessments. australia's proposals, which aim to reduce u.s. target prices and "quarantine" u.s. wheat stocks, would continue to place the burden of supply adjustment and reform on u.s. farmers, they said. other countries, including australia, have benefitted from the higher world prices that have resulted from past u.s. acreage and crop reduction programs, the organizations said. "we will not continue to hurt ourselves economically -- and subsidize foreign wheat production -- by unilaterally stocking grain and changing programs which protect our growers," jim miller, president of nawg said. "we sincerely hope for some type of agreement among the world's major grain producing nations to reduce stocks and restore profitability to agriculture," miller said. reuter
0	the new york mercantile exchange said it will introduce exchanges for physicals (efps) to its energy futures markets april one. an exchange spokeswoman said the change will allow oil traders that do not hold a futures position to initiate, after the exchange closes, a transaction that can subsequently be hedged in the futures market. efps, already in effect for platinum futures on nymex, are expected to increase the open interest and liquidity in u.s. energy futures, according to traders and analysts. the commodity futures trading commission approved the rule change in february, according to a cftc spokeswoman. reuter
0	greece, responding to a warning by turkey against conducting oil activities in the aegean sea, said today it had the right to decide where and how to do research or drilling work in the area. a government spokesman said the greek position was made clear to turkey's ambassador nazmi akiman when he met greek foreign affairs undersecretary yannis kapsis last week. acting turkish prime minister kaya erdem said earlier today greek activities in the northern aegean contravened the 1976 berne agreement which set the framework for talks on the aegean continental shelf disputed between ankara and athens. the greek statement today said, "greece is not prepared to give up even a trace of its sovereignty rights to the seabed. it has been stressed to...mr akiman that the decision where or how to drill belongs exclusively to the greek government." "the greek government has repeatedly let the turkish side know that it considers the 1976 berne protocol as inactive through the fault of turkey," it said. the greek statement said athens was ready to put the continental shelf issue before international courts. reuter
1	february volume at the chicago board of trade, cbt, declined 14 pct from the year-ago month to 8,191,266 contracts, the exchange said. a relatively steady interest rate climate reduced volume in the most active contract, treasury bond futures, by 17.5 pct from a year ago to 4,307,645 contracts. however, trading in most agricultural futures contracts increased last month, led by oats and corn futures. oats volume tripled to 27,662 contracts, and corn volume increased 35 pct to 580,204 contracts. wheat and soybean oil futures activity also rose from a year ago, while soybean and soybean oil volume slipped, the exchange said. major market index futures increased activity 37 pct during the month with 194,697 contracts changing hands. reuter
1	grain trade representatives continued to speculate that the reagan administration will offer subsidized wheat to the soviet union, while u.s. agriculture department officials said there was no substance to the reports. "it's pure fiction," said one senior official at usda's foreign agricultural service, referring to the rumor that the administration would make an export enhancement offer to moscow in the next two to three weeks. an aide to agriculture secretary richard lyng who asked not to be identified said there was nothing to substantiate the speculation, which he said was started by "somebody fanning the (wheat) market." wheat futures strengthened today, partly on the basis of the speculation. one lobbyist with close connections to the reagan administration said a soviet trade team told private grain trade officials in new york last week that moscow would buy as much as four mln tonnes of u.s. wheat, much of it before mid-year, if it was "competitively priced." alexander ivlev, an official with amtorg, a soviet trading organization, told reuters he had no information to substantiate the rumors of an imminent wheat subsidy offer, but said that moscow "would consider" buying u.s. wheat if it was competitively priced. "we don't care if it is eep, what we (the soviets) are looking for is competitive prices," ivlev said. "if they (the administration) are interested in selling it (wheat), they should find ways to do it." reuter
0	opec remains within its agreed output ceiling of 15.8 mln barrels a day, and had expected current fluctuations in the spot market of one or two dlrs, indonesian energy minister subroto said. he told reporters after meeting with president suharto that present weakness in the spot oil market was the result of warmer weather in the u.s. and europe which reduced demand for oil. prices had also been forced down because refineries were using up old stock, he said. he denied that opec was exceeding its agreed production ceiling. asked what opec's output level was now, he replied: "below 15.8 (mln barrels per day)." he did not elaborate. he said there appeared to have been some attempts to manipulate the market, but if all opec members stick by the cartel's december pricing agreement it would get through present price difficulties. he predicted that prices would recover again in the third and fourth quarters of 1987. he also reiterated that there was no need for an emergency opec meeting. he said opec had expected to see some fluctuations in the spot price. "we hope the weak price will be overcome, and predict the price will be better in the third and fourth quarters." refiners, he said, appeared to have used up old stock deliberately to cause slack demand in the market and the price to fall. but opec would get through this period if members stuck together. reuter
1	the government's industry aid and protection review body, the industries assistance commission (iac), will hold a 12-month inquiry into the australian wheat industry, primary industry minister john kerin said. the iac has been asked to report on the need for assistance to the industry and the nature, duration and extent of any aid, he said in a statement. he said the inquiry will be the first step in setting marketing arrangements to apply after june 30, 1989, when the underwriting and pricing provisions of the 1984 wheat marketing act expire. kerin said the broad-ranging reference would allow a full examination of all aspects of the wheat-marketing system. "the inquiry will be required to take into account changes which have taken place in the industry as a result of the agricultural policies of major wheat producing countries and the industry's capacity to adjust to any recommended changes," he said. "the inquiry is at an important time for the wheat industry, as the substantial fall in world prices is likely to trigger underwriting support from the government for the first time," he said. kerin was referring to the government's underwriting of the guaranteed minimum price paid to wheatgrowers by the australian wheat board near the start of the season. the iac's report will be due at the same time as the findings of the current royal commission into grain storage, handling and transport, kerin said. he said the timing of the iac inquiry would allow its findings and those of the royal commission to be considered in later negotiations on wheat-marketing arrangements between the federal and state governments and the industry. reuter
0	mexican state oil firm petroleos mexicanos (pemex) signed for a 500 mln dlr untied loan from the export-import bank of japan to finance its pacific petroleum project, pemex japan representative tito ayal said. no further details on the loan were immediately available. ayala told an oil seminar the project, due for completion in 1988, is aimed at improving distribution of oil products in the domestic market, mainly along the pacific coast. the project consists of a pipeline linking nueva teapa on the gulf of mexico with salina cruz on the pacific coast, and construction of the second phase of the salina cruz refinery. the project also includes construction of liquified petroleum gas (lpg) storage tanks at santa cruz, additional crude oil storage at both ends of the pipeline, an ammonia complex at lazaro cardenas on the pacific coast and expansion of the infrastructure of the port of salina cruz, ayala said. pemex will buy 80 mln dlrs worth of foreign equipment and materials for the project, he said. the new pipeline will enable japan to load mexico's maya crude oil at salina cruz rather than in the gulf of mexico. pemex will also have some lpg surplus available in salina cruz that may help japan diversify its supply sources of that product, he added. reuter
0	mobil corp <mob.n> of the u.s. plans to open an office in peking to develop oil exploration opportunities in china, the china daily said. it quoted mobil president richard tucker, currently in peking, as saying he is optimistic about investment prospects in china and that peking will continue to encourage foreign private businesses to invest here. it said mobil bought 73 mln dlrs of crude oil and oil products from china in 1986 and sold it lubricant and fertiliser, but gave no more details. reuter
0	mobil oil corp of u.s. plans to open an office in peking to develop oil exploration opportunities in china, the china daily said. it quoted mobil president richard tucker, currently in peking, as saying he is optimistic about investment prospects in china and that peking will continue to encourage foreign private businesses to invest here. it said mobil bought 73 mln dlrs of crude oil and oil products from china in 1986 and sold it lubricant and fertiliser, but gave no more details. reuter
0	opec remains within its agreed output ceiling of 15.8 mln barrels a day, and had expected current fluctuations in the spot market of one or two dlrs, indonesian energy minister subroto said. he told reporters after meeting with president suharto that present weakness in the spot oil market was the result of warmer weather in the u.s. and europe which reduced demand for oil. prices had also been forced down because refineries were using up old stock, he said. he denied that opec was exceeding its agreed production ceiling. asked what opec's output level was now, he replied: "below 15.8 (mln barrels per day)." he did not elaborate. he said there appeared to have been some attempts to manipulate the market, but if all opec members stick by the cartel's december pricing agreement it would get through present price difficulties. he predicted that prices would recover again in the third and fourth quarters of 1987. he also reiterated that there was no need for an emergency opec meeting. he said opec had expected to see some fluctuations in the spot price. "we hope the weak price will be overcome, and predict the price will be better in the third and fourth quarters." refiners, he said, appeared to have used up old stock deliberately to cause slack demand in the market and the price to fall. but opec would get through this period if members stuck together. reuter
1	a total of 2,435 tonnes of british intervention feed wheat were sold at today's tender for the home market out of requests for 3,435 tonnes, the home grown cereals authority, hgca, said. price details were not reported. no bids were submitted for intervention barley. reuter
1	the u.k. exported 535,460 tonnes of wheat and 336,750 tonnes of barley in january, the home grown cereals authority (hgca) said, quoting adjusted customs and excise figures. based on the previous january figures issued on february 9, wheat exports increased by nearly 64,000 tonnes and barley by about 7,000 tonnes. the new figures bring cumulative wheat exports for the period july 1/february 13 to 2.99 mln tonnes, and barley to 2.96 mln compared with 1.25 and 1.89 mln tonnes respectively a year ago. january wheat exports comprised 251,000 tonnes to european community destinations and 284,000 tonnes to third countries. the soviet union was prominent in third country destinations, taking 167,700 tonnes while poland was credited with 54,500 and south korea 50,000 tonnes. italy was the largest ec recipient with 75,000 tonnes followed by west germany with 55,200 and france 52,000 tonnes. barley exports for january comprised 103,700 tonnes to the ec and 233,000 to third countries. the soviet union was the largest single importer with 133,265 tonnes followed by saudi arabia with 53,800 tonnes. reuter
1	winter wheat crops in the western soviet union, poland and eastern czechoslovakia through northern romania may suffer some winterkill over the next two nights, private forecaster accu-weather inc said. western ussr winter wheat areas have had only light and spotty snow and winterkill is possible tonight and tomorrow night as temperatures drop to minus 10 to 0 degrees f. snow cover is scant in poland, with only about 50 pct of the winter wheat areas reporting one to two inches of snow as of this morning. the remaining 50 pct of winter wheat crops do not have snow cover, making winterkill possible on each of the next two nights. lowest temperatures will be minus 10 to 0 degrees f. winter wheat areas from eastern czechoslovakia through northern romania had light snow flurries yesterday and last night, but amounts were an inch or less. with temperatures expected to fall to near 0 degrees f over the next two nights, some light winterkill is possible, accu-weather added. reuter
1	there was no evidence of winterkill in yugoslavian winter wheat during field travel along a line running northwest from belgrade to near maribor, the u.s. agriculture department's counselor in belgrade said in a field report. the report, dated february 26, said there is evidence of delayed germination in most areas due to late seeding last fall because of dry conditions. however warm temperatures over the past three weeks have promoted some early growth and will help the crop catch up on last fall's late seeding, it said. some yugoslav agriculture officials are concerned about the situation because warm temperatures have brought the grain out of dormancy and taken away snow protection a little early, the report said. cold temperatures over the next month could cause damage under these conditions, they said. the report said all wheat farmers contacted during the field trip were optimistic about the crop and the way it emerged from winter. reuter
1	the upcoming five-month deficiency payments to corn and sorghum farmers will be made half in cash and half in generic commodity certificates, a senior agriculture department official told reuters. around 300 mln dlrs of the in-kind certificates, or "certs," will be mailed out to farmers around march 15 or 16, tom von garlem, assistant deputy administrator for usda's state and county operations, said. the decision to make the payments in a 50/50 cash/certs ratio was made monday, but payments to producers will be delayed until mid-month due to a problem with usda's computer program, von garlem said. get 11.5 cts per bushel in this next payment -- 5.75 cts in certs and around 5.5 cts cash (5.75 cts minus gramm-rudman). farmers who did not receive advance deficiency payments at signup will receive 63 cts per bushel. slightly more than half of this payment will be in cash, von garlem said, but he said this will not markedly upset the 50/50 ratio, since most farmers got advance payments. "the final certificate payments will be very close to 300 mln dlrs," he said. when asked if the office of management and budget had resisted the cash/certs ratio, the usda official said that "we proposed 50/50 and omb accepted it." reuter
1	one offer but no bid was posted for srw wheat on the call session at the st louis merchants exchange today. there were no bids or offers for milo. june 15-july 15 bill of lading for wheat was offered at 17 over july, no comparison, no bid. reuter
1	french exporters estimated that around 600,000 tonnes of french soft wheat has been sold to china for delivery in the 1986/87 (july/june) year. around 300,000 tonnes were exported to china between july 1986 and february this year. another 100,000 to 150,000 tonnes will be shipped during this month and around the same amount in april, they said. france sold around 250,000 tonnes of soft wheat to china in 1985/86, according to customs figures. however, certain exporters fear china may renounce part of its contract with france after being offered one mln tonnes of u.s. soft wheat under the export enhancement program in january and making some purchases under the initiative. reuter
1	the u.s. agriculture department said private u.s. exporters reported sales of 104,000 tonnes of corn to unknown destinations for shipment in the 1986/87 marketing year. the marketing year for corn began september 1, it said. reuter
1	the commodity credit corporation has approved an additional 45.0 mln dlrs under its interemdiate export credit guarantee program, gsm-103, for sales of u.s. wheat to morocco, the u.s. agriculture department said. the action increases morocco's cumulative fiscal year 1987 program for wheat under gsm-103 to 75.0 mln dlrs. the credit terms extended for exports under the program must be in excess of three years but no more than seven years to eligible for credit coverage. all sales under this line must be registered and exported by september 30, 1987. the department also said the guarantee line for sales of u.s. wheat under the export credit guarantee program, gsm-102, has been decreased 45.0 mln dlrs to 60.0 mln. reuter
1	soviet winter grains could be off to a faulty start this spring after enduring an usually dry fall and cold winter, weather and crop analysts said. prospects for another near-record grain harvest in the soviet union appear dim at this point, but it is premature to forecast any major crop problems, analysts said. but the situation bears careful watching over the next six weeks and will ultimately impact the soviet grain supply and future buying plans, analysts of the soviet union said. "from a weather standpoint, you can say with certainty that the soviets are not getting off to a good start and will have a lower crop (than last year)," gail martell, chief meteorologist for e.f. hutton said. the next six weeks in the ussr's grain growing areas will be the crucial period that will determine the final outcome of the winter crops, martell and other analysts said. "where the crop is really made or broken is still ahead of us," an agriculture department authority on the ussr said. the soviet union recently reported that nine mln hectares of winter grain will have to be reseeded due to winterkill. this would be equal to about 25 pct of the total winter crop and would be the second highest winterkill in ten years, the usda analyst said. with a timely spring, soviet farmers would probably be able to reseed the damaged acreage with spring crops, but analysts noted that spring crops normally yield lower than winter crops -- sometimes as much as 30-35 pct lower. normally winterkill is caused by inadequate snowcover combined with cold temperatures. this winter, however, snowcover in soviet grain areas has generally been excellent, so the bulk of winterkill, analysts speculate, likely has been due to a very dry fall and subsequent poor crop germination. "fall dryness may be a problem. there's a good correlation between mediocre crops and fall dryness," martell said. precipitation last fall was as little as 25 pct of normal in southern and northern ukraine, and below normal over the entire winter crop area, she said. recent cold temperatures in grain areas in which the snowcover has been gradually melting could also have caused problems of ice-crusting and winterkill, jim candor, senior forecaster for accu weather, said. livestock feed needs have probably increased because of the fall and winter, analysts said. the dry fall damaged pastures, the cold winter raised feed demands and a late spring would require longer off-pasture feeding, they said. "the soviets are not in a desperate situation ... they don't have to buy (grains) now," a usda official said. but if the soviets are worried about their winter crops and if they feel that last year's huge crop of 210 mln tonnes was a one-time fluke brought on by perfect conditions, more soviet buying might occur to insure crop supplies, he said. bad weather during the next six weeks could push the soviets back into the market, weather analysts said. "a lot of winterkill could occur during the next month and a half," martell said. reuter
0	crude oil prices rallied today, moving over 17.00 dlrs a barrel because of saudi arabia's determined effort to support prices, analysts said. "the saudis and other opec nations are jawboning the market, hoping to restore confidence and prices and to do this without another meeting," said sanford margoshes, oil analyst with shearson lehman brothers inc. "but opec is not out of the woods yet by a longshot due to seasonal declines in demand and some cheating," he added. oil industry analysts said saudi arabia has led the attempt to get other opec members to resist pressures to discount from the official prices agreed to last december. the analysts said that to get others to hold the line, saudi arabia pushed hard at the meeting of deputy oil ministers of the gulf cooperation council last weekend and at the cooperation council oil ministers' meeting the previous week. the saudis have also offered to support members having difficulty in selling their oil, analysts said. "they are trying to make sure that no one discounts, and to prevent that, it appears that saudi arabia or some other opec member will allocate some of their oil sales to help members that lose sales," margoshes said. he added that the allocations would probably be in the form of loans to be repaid when these nations resume sales. analysts said this would be useful in keeping in line nations like qatar, which has had trouble selling oil. but it is also likely that such assistance would be provided to nigeria which is under pressure to extend discounts. analysts said that saudi arabia, with assistance from opec president rilwanu lukman, was trying to avoid an emergency opec meeting for fear that it would give the appearance that the december pact is falling apart. daniel mckinley, oil analyst with smith barney, upham harris and co said, "both physical and futures markets have been oversold and it only took a small spark to bring on a short covering rally." he believes an iranian trade mission to tokyo, which refused discounts to japanese buyers, brought japanese refiners into the market to cover their short positions. oil traders said one japanese refiner came into the market to but 10 cargoes of may dubai, which sent prices up on mideast sours, with dubai trading up to 16.50 dlrs after trading yeterray as low as 15.63 dlrs and then spilled over into the north sea crude oil market. traders said that there have been persistent rumors today that japanese buyers are looking to pick up cargoes of brent for japan and european trade sources indidate rumors of vessels being fixed to make such shipments. north sea brent today rose over 17.00 dlrs with trades reported as high as 17.05 dlrs, up one dlr. opec members' denials that they are producing over their quotas sparked moves to cover short postitions. indonesian oil minister subroto said today that opec production was below the 15.8 mln bpd quota agreed to last december but he gave no details on opec production against claims it was more at least one mln bpd above that level. "the production probably is about their quota level and largely because saudi arabia will not discount and canot sell its oil as a result," margoshes said. analysts have mixed opinions about the extent of the current rally. some believe prices can continue to rise if saudi arabia and opec hold steady in a refusal to discount. but others said that despite the rally today there were still several fundamental factors, including demand, which could cut the rally short. marion stewart, an indepedent petroleum economist, said slow growth in the economies of the u.s. and oecd would keep demand for oil slack and he now estimates that demand to rise about 1.4 pct over 1986. reuter
0	<pancanadian petroleum ltd> said it agreed to sell its working interest in its north sea properties and its british unit, canadian pacific oil and gas of canada ltd, to whitehall petroleum ltd, a private british company. pancanadian, 87 pct-owned by canadian pacific ltd <cp>, said it would receive 1.7 mln british pounds cash (3.5 mln canadian dlrs) at closing, expected in two to three months. it said the deal is subject to approval by regulators and its partners in the properties, which consist of exploration wells. it will also retain a royalty interest in the properties. reuter
0	distillate fuel stocks held in primary storage fell by 4.4 mln barrels in the week ended feb 27 to 127.10 mln barrels from 131.50 mln the previous week, the american petroleum institute (api) said. in its weekly statistical bulletin, the oil industry trade group said gasoline stocks fell 30,000 barrels to 252.92 mln barrels from a revised 252.95 mln, while crude oil stocks rose 700,000 barrels to 329.38 mln from a revised 328.68 mln. it said residual fuel stocks fell 380,000 barrels to 38.04 mln from 38.42 mln barrels. api said refinery runs in the week fell to 12.17 mln barrels per day from a revised 12.42 mln and refinery use of operating capacity was 78.1 pct, off from a revised 79.7 pct. crude oil imports in the week fell to 3.98 mln bpd from a revised 4.22 mln, api added. reuter
1	eligible producers of 1986 crop u.s. corn and sorghum will receive an estimated 600 mln dlrs in deficiency payments -- 50 pct in generic commodity certificates and 50 pct in cash, the u.s. agriculture department said. it said corn producers will receive about 515 mln dlrs and sorghum producers about 85 mln dlrs. only the cash portion of the payments will be subject to the 4.3 pct reduction in compliance with the gramm-rudman budget deficit control act of 1985, it said. corn and sorghum producers who requested advance deficiency payments have already received about 2.8 billion dlrs and 225 mln dlrs, respectively, usda said. the department said deficiency payment rates of 51.5 cents per bushel for corn and 49 cents per bushel for sorghum were received by producers requesting advance payments. deficiency payments are calculated as the difference between an established target price and the higher of the basic loan rate, or the national average price received by farmers during the first five months of the marketing year -- september-january. national weighted average market prices for the first five months of the season were 1.46 dlrs per bushel for corn and 1.33 dlrs per bushel for sorghum. eligible corn producers will be paid 63 cts per bushel, based on the difference between the 3.03 target price and the 2.40 dlr per bushel basic loan rate. sorghum producers' deficiency payment rate will be 60 cents per bushel, based on the difference between the 2.88 dlrs per bushel target price and the 2.28 dlrs per bushel basic loan rate. the deficiency payment rates for both commodities are the maximum permitted by law, the department said. eligible corn and sorghum producers will receive another 1986 crop deficiency payment in october if the national average market prices received by farmers during the entire marketing year for both commodities are below the basic loan rates, the department said. the payments will be issued through local agricultural stabilization and conservation service offices, it said. reuter
1	the australian government will likely reimburse the australian wheat board, awb, about 132 mln (u.s.) dlrs to pay wheat farmers for their 1986/87 crop, the u.s. agriculture department said. in its report on export markets for u.s. grains, the department said the sharp fall in world wheat prices has reduced the export sales revenue of the awb to levels insufficient to cover its breakeven export price estimated at around 98 dlrs per tonne. for example the recent large sales of wheat to china (1.5 mln tonnes) and egypt (2.0 mln tonnes) were well below the breakeven export price, it said. australian wheat farmers normally receive an advance payment known as the guaranteed minimum price, gmp, calculated at 90 pct of the average of estimated returns in the current year and the two lowest of the previous three years, the department said. in addition, deductions for taxes, freight, handling and storage are deducted from the gmp the farmer receives. but the department said the australian bureau of agricultural economics, bae, predicts wheat production will drop sharply from 17.8 mln tonnes in 1986/87 to 13.5 mln in 1989/90. the decline will result from low world grain prices leading to shifts to livestock and other crops which could benefit u.s. wheat exports, the department said. reuter
0	saudi arabia will succeed in pressuring other members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries to stay within their production quotas, said morgan stanley group managing director john wellemeyer. wellemeyer, speaking to reporters at an offshore oil engineering conference, also said he expected opec nations to attempt to hold prices under 20 dlrs a barrel for several years to keep industrial demand for residual fuel oil strong. "over the next few weeks i think you'll see a concerted effort by the saudis to get production down," wellemeyer said. "the saudis are committed to that price level (of 18 dlrs a barrel) and are willing to make it happen again," he said. in recent weeks, oil prices fell to the 16 to 17 dlrs a barrel level on market reports of some ope members producing above their quota, pushing total opec production to 15.8 mln barrels per day. but prices rebounded today, with april u.s. crude prices up about one dlr to over 17 dlrs a barrel on a belief saudi arabia is attempting to curb opec output. wellemeyer said that sharp declines in u.s. oil production could push demand for opec oil above 20 mln barrels per day as early as 1989 and up to 24 mln barrels per day by 1993. although the projected increases in demand for opec oil should strengthen world prices, wellemeyer said he believed the organization would hold its official price below 20 dlrs a barrel for some time to prevent residual fuel users from switching to natural gas supplies. the interfuel swing market accounts for about eight mln barrels a day, or 18 pct of the world demand for oil. reuter
1	the european community, ec, sold 75,000 tonnes of soft wheat at a subsidized price of between 85 and 89 dlrs per tonne fob for march delivery in a continuing bid to establish itself in the brazilian wheat market, the u.s. agriculture department said. the sale sharply undercut the u.s. offer of 112 dlrs per tonne fob for 33,000 tonnes of wheat, it said in its latest report on export markets for u.s grains. ec sales to brazil total about 225,000 tonnes during 1986/87 (july-june) in stark contrast to only 50,000 tonnes in the 1985/86 season, it said. the increasing presence of ec wheat in brazil comes at a time when the brazilian wheat board, bwb, expects the wheat import market will expand to 3.4 mln tonnes from the current forecast of 3.0 mln in the 1986/87 year. the bwb cites record consumption and an eventual decline in domestic production, and says government plans to lower the guaranteed price of wheat from 242 dlrs per tonne to 180 dlrs will contribute to greater import demand, the usda said. it said the bwb expects the u.s. to be major supplier of the additional 400,000 tonnes, but commitments for purchase of u.s. wheat through two-thirds of 1986/87 year total only 600,000 tonnes versus 700,000 a year ago. reuter
1	taiwan passed on its tender overnight for 25,000 tonnes of u.s. corn and 49,000 tonnes u.s. sorghum, private export sources said. taiwan will retender for the corn, for may 15-30 shipment if via the gulf, or june 1-15 via pacific northwest, on march 6, but has not rescheduled a tender for sorghum, they said. reuter
1	bangladesh passed on its weekend tender for 100,000 tonnes of optional origin soft wheat, private export sources said. reuter
1	despite earlier optimistic indications, the south african corn crop is at a critical stage in its development and recent reports of heat stress could reduce production and therefore exportable supplies, the u.s. agriculture department said. in its report on export markets for u.s. grains, the department said south africa's corn exports in the 1986/87 (oct-sept) season are estimated at 2.5 mln tonnes, up 40 pct from the previous year. the re-emergence of south africa as a competitor follows a period of severe droughts, which at one point required south africa to import 2.7 mln tones of u.s. corn in 1983/84, it said. since those imports in 1983/84, the u.s. has been facing increased competition from south africa in taiwan and japan. but if south africa is perceived as lacking available supplies, purchases of u.s. corn may be further stimulated, the department said. reuter
1	chicago board of trade grain traders and analysts voiced a lot of interest in how farmers planned to handle their upcoming spring plantings, prompting sales of new crop months of corn and oats and purchases in new crop soybeans in the futures markets. professionals in the grains trade think that farmers will be more willing to stick with corn acres than soybeans because corn is protected by the acreage reduction program. that gives deficiency payments to farmers if corn prices stay low. farmers can place soybeans under the loan program if they sign-up for reduced acreage, but they have no price guarantees. with the price outlook for both commodities so dismal, traders believe farmers will want to stick with a sure thing rather than gamble on soybeans, even though the new crop soybean/corn ratio of 2.9/1 would make planting soybeans more attractive under normal circumstances. an announcement late friday that the usda will lift the limited cross-compliance requirement for the 1987 oats crop, means farmers will be able plant an estimated two to three mln more oat acres this year than last without being penalized, traders said. here too, acres some farmers may have been thinking of shifting to soybeans will now be planted with oats, due to the more attractive deal from the government, they added. cotton prices are almost twice what they were just six months ago, which should prompt many farmers in the south to put soybean land back into cotton. one of the reasons for the steady increase in soybean production in recent years has been a general shift of acres in traditional cotton producing regions of the south to soybeans, which are easier to grow, one commercial trader said. reuter
1	the senate agriculture committee is expected to take up a bill tomorrow that would exempt from government conservation regulations those farmers who have rotated alfalfa and other multiyear grasses and legumes with row crops, committee staff said. under current so-called "sodbuster" law, farmers who planted alfalfa and other multiyear grasses and legumes on highly erodible land in the years 1981 through 1985 lose federal farm program benefits if they produce a row crop on that land in later years. sen. edward zorinsky (d-neb.), sponsor of the measure, said recently that those crop rotating practices resulted in less erosion than the practices of many farmers who produced strictly row crops. reuter
0	worldwide spot crude oil movements fell to 30.07 mln long dwt in february from 37.25 mln tons in january and 41.44 mln in december, london shipbroker howard houlder said. the decline mainly reflected a sharp drop in movements out of the mideast gulf, which totalled 7.4 mln tons last month against 11.65 mln in january. these included shipments to western options at 2.05 mln tons against 3.59 mln previously. liftings from the gulf to eastern options fell to 4.15 mln tons from 5.94 mln and those from the gulf to other areas dropped to 1.2 mln tons from 2.13 mln, howard houlder said. u.k./continent coastal movements declined sharply to 2.91 mln tons from 4.77 mln but those from the u.k./continent to the u.s. rose to 1.99 mln from 1.69 mln. reuter
1	poland's winter wheat is likely to survive recent frosts but the impact of the cold will not be known until late april, the polish meteorology institute said. some varieties of winter wheat sown in poland can survive ground temperatures as low as minus 20 degrees c, spokesman teresa tomaszewska told reuters. even though an earlier thin protective layer of snow mainly melted in february, air temperatures down to minus 30 c should not be harmful, she said, but added that wheat can still be damaged by cold spells in march and april, when young shoots may be exposed to night frosts. reuter
1	torrential rains throughout argentina's grain-producing areas virtually paralysed coarse grain harvesting in the week to yesterday, trade sources said. sunflower, maize and sorghum harvests were particularly affected, they said. but the rains proved to be a great aid to soybean crops as their harvesting will not begin until april or may. the rains did no damage to maize, sunflower and sorghum crops though fresh rains in similar volume could reduce yields and cut the total volume of this year's harvest. rainfall measured between 15 and 270 mm in buenos aires, with the heaviest rains in the province's western sectors, between 15 and 100 mm in cordoba, 15 and 120 mm in la pampa, 10 and 75 mm in santa fe, 10 and 60 mm in entre rios, five and 40 mm in misiones, and five and 50 mm in san luis. no rain was recorded in corrientes, chaco and formosa. growers did not revise their estimates for total volume of the coarse grain harvest over last week's estimates. maize harvesting continued moving forward in central santa fe, though slowly. growers had harvested seven to nine pct of total planted area, compared to five to seven pct last week. total maize area planted for the 1986/87 harvest was estimated at between 3.58 and 3.78 mln hectares, or two to seven pct less than the 3.85 mln hectares planted in the 1985/86 harvest. maize production is expected to total between 10.4 and 11 mln tonnes, or a drop of 17.5 to 19.4 pct over the 12.4 to 12.6 mln tonnes harvested last year according to private estimates, or 18.9 to 21.9 pct lower than last year's volume, according to official figures. the sunflower harvest advanced to between seven and nine pct of total planted area. two to 2.2 mln hectares have been planted with sunflowers for this harvest, down 29.9 to 36.3 pct from last year's figure of 3.14 mln hectares. sunflower production is expected to total between 2.4 mln and 2.7 mln tonnes, which would mean a drop of between 34.1 and 41.5 pct against the record 4.1 mln tonnes harvested in the 1985/86 harvest. grain sorghum harvesting inched forward to between two and four pct of total planted area, which this harvest is 1.23 to 1.30 mln hectares or 10.3 to 15.2 pct less than the 1.45 mln hectares planted in the 1985/86 harvest. sorghum production is expected to total between 3.2 mln and 3.5 mln tonnes, or 16.7 to 22 pct less than the 4.1 to 4.2 million tonnes harvested in 1985/86. soybean production, by contrast, is expected to hit a record 8.0 to 8.4 mln tonnes, which would mean an increase of 11.1 to 15.1 pct over last year's record figure of 7.2 to 7.3 mln tonnes, according to private estimates. official figures put last year's soybean harvest at 7.1 mln tonnes. soybean crops were reported to be in generally very good condition, helped by abundant rains and high temperatures. total soybean-planted area for the 1986/87 harvest is expected to be a record 3.7 to 3.8 mln hectares, up 10.8 to 13.8 pct from last year's harvest figure of 3.34 mln hectares. reuter
1	sen. rudy boschwitz, r-minn., said he intended to offer legislation that would allow 1987 producers of wheat, feedgrains, cotton and rice to receive at least 92 pct of their deficiency payments, regardless of how much they planted. boschwitz told the senate agriculture committee that applying the so-called 0/92 provision to 1987 crops was supported by the reagan administration and would save approximately 500 mln dlrs, including 266 mln dlrs in corn payments, 90 mln dlrs in wheat and 30 mln dlrs in cotton. the minnesota senator said he might offer the bill on the senate floor or in a conference committee with the house of representatives in the event a similar bill before the house agriculture committee is approved by that body. boschwitz told reuters that neither he nor the u.s. agriculture department had decided whether or how deficiency payments should be guaranteed to farmers who might choose not to plant under the decoupling scheme. if payments are not set in advance under decoupling, market prices conceivably could rise, thereby leading to diminished deficiency payments. senate agriculture committee chairman patrick leahy, d-vt., said he wanted to go to conference with the house as soon as possible on the issue, but would have to study the matter further before deciding how he would vote on it. reuter
0	drilling for oil in california is likely to continue at last year's sharply reduced levels despite recent gains in crude oil prices, industry analysts said. because much of the crude oil in california fields is thick, heavy and expensive to extract, oil prices would have to increase to near 1985's levels before any significant recovery is seen in drilling, they said. "companies will probably only drill their best prospects," said john curti, an analyst with birr wilson securities inc. few new wells now are being drilled. only 33 rigs, about one-quarter of the total available, were drilling for oil onshore in california last week, compared to about 70 last year, said bill bolster of munger oil information services, which tracks california drilling activity. "it's in the dregs right now," said bolster of the state's drilling activity. current prices are not enough to justify increased drilling, said ed malmgreen of the california independent producers association. while an organization of petroleum exporting countries pact to curb production boosted oil prices early this year, prices eventually fell. prices for california's marker grade, line 63 blend, have slumped about 20 pct in the last month to 14 dlrs from a high of about 17 dlrs. more than half of california's oil comes from stripper wells, those producing less than 10 barrels a day, and that much of that oil costs between 18 and 25 dlrs a barrel to extract, malmgreen said. "it's not unusual for a stripper well to cost 18 dlrs," malmgreen said. many stripper wells along the southern california coast produce eight times as much water as crude oil, and inland wells frequently require the use of steam injection to spur extraction of the thick, heavy oil, he said. the outlook for future production in california is clouded by a lack of exploratory drilling now, analysts said. in the heart of california's oil patch, kern county, which produces about two-thirds of the state's oil, exploratory drilling has slowed to a crawl. only 55 exploratory wells were drilled in kern county in 1986, compared to 137 in 1985, according to david mitchell of the state energy commission. so far this year only five exploratory wells have been drilled. "i don't think they'll even get to what they did last year," mitchell said. no pickup in exploratory drilling is likely for the rest of the decade, mitchell said. along with the fall in drilling has come a decrease in the number of producing wells and overall production. between february and october of 1986, the number of producing oil wells in california fell 14 pct to 43,521 from more than 50,000, said bill guerard of the california energy commission. in line with that decrease, california's crude oil output fell about 10 pct last year due to low oil prices and is expected to remain at that lower level, analysts said. between february and october 1986, california's crude oil production slipped from an all-time high of 1.185 mln barrels per day to 1.066 mln bpd, guerard said. total estimated crude oil production in california for 1986 was 408 mln bbls, compared with 424 mln bbls in 1985 and 405 mln bbl in 1983, according to the california department of conservation. "production in 1987 will probably hold around 1986 levels," guerard said. reuter
1	the government daily izvestia said a considerable amount of soviet winter crops need to be reseeded and the state 1987 grain harvest target of 232 mln tonnes will not be easy to fulfil. without giving figures, the newspaper said: "a considerable part of the winter crops must be reseeded, but that creates extra effort in the fields in spring." the soviet union has previously said nine mln hectares of winter grain will have to be reseeded because of winterkill. a u.s. department of agriculture analyst in washington has said the figure of nine mln hectares would equal about 25 pct of the total winter crop and would be the second highest winterkill in 10 years. "the planned task of bringing in no less than 232 mln tonnes of grain is not simple," izvestia said. this week's sudden fall in temperatures has affected large parts of the country and has caused fieldwork to stop in the ukraine, it said, adding that temperatures fell to as low as minus 30 centigrade in byelorussia. reuter
1	the u.s. senate agriculture committee approved a measure that would exempt farmers who planted alfalfa or other multiyear grasses and legumes between 1981 and 1985 from a federal conservation requirement. sen. edward zorinsky, d-neb., said his bill would restore equity under federal sodbuster rules, which currently deny farm program benefits to farmers who, between 1981 and 1985, planted alfalfa and other multiyear grasses and legumes without interrupting the plantings with a row crop. an official from a leading conservation group, who asked not to be identified, said the panel's move was "an unfortunate first action" because it could lead to the exemption of potentially millions of acres from the sod buster regulations, established under the 1985 farm bill. reuter
1	french soft wheat exports to other european community countries fell 18 pct to 4.13 mln tonnes in the first seven months of the 1986/87 season to january compared with 5.04 mln in the same 1985/86 period, the french cereals intervention office (onic) said. according to latest onic statistics, the main buyers were italy with 1.89 mln against 1.63 mln in the same 1985/86 period, west germany 480,450 tonnes against 717,689, the netherlands 462,048 (532,299) and belgium 417,887 tonnes (919,337). british and greek imports of french soft wheat during this period were below year-ago levels. between july 1 last year and january 31, britain bought 274,665 tonnes against 642,800 tonnes, onic figures showed. but spanish purchases were up sharply at 258,507 tonnes against 2,751 tonnes in the same 1985/86 period and portugal bought 37,599 tonnes compared with zero. onic said the drop in french exports to other community countries was due to british competition. reuter
1	the size of french 1986/87 carryover barley stocks, estimated at 1.72 mln tonnes compared with 700,000 tonnes in 1985/86 is worrying, french cereals intervention office (onic) director bernard vieux said. he told journalists these estimates were unchanged at the end of february from the previous month while export forecasts were lowered to 4.5 mln tonnes from 5.76 mln in 1985/86. vieux called on the ec commission to help by awarding a larger volume of export certificates and said if no outlets are opened for french barley a large amount could be put into intervention. a small amount of french barley has already been put into intervention, vieux said without detailing the amount. the outlook for french maize is better with 1986/87 exports to non-ec countries now put at 700,000 tonnes against 200,000 tonnes at the end of january and against 155,000 tonnes in 1985/86. the higher estimate is due to the ec commission's decision to hold special export tenders for french maize, he said. reuter
1	the canadian wheat board has advised the federal government to sharply cut initial prices paid to farmers for their wheat, oats, and barley in the crop year beginning august 1, a board spokesman said. the spokesman declined to give the size of the recommended price drops but said it would not be good news for western canadian grain growers. "they're all lower," he said. "this is really getting pretty serious. we're talking nuts and bolts economic survival and whether it's worthwhile for farmers to put in a crop." farm leaders and economists have estimated the board will recommend cuts of around 20 pct in the initial prices. farmers receive the initial payment when the grain is delivered to the elevators used by the wheat board. if the wheat board, which markets most of canada's grain, obtains higher than expected prices on world markets, the farmers receive a final payment at the end of the crop year. if prices are lower, the federal treasury makes up the difference. the final decision on the initial prices, usually made in april, rests with wheat board minister charles mayer and the federal cabinet. last year mayer cut the initial prices between 19 and 27 pct but last fall the government announced a one billion canadian dlr aid program to compensate for the price cuts. but federal agricultural officials have already warned farmers not to depend on additional government aid this year. reuter
0	iranian oil minister gholamreza aqazadeh is expected here on friday for talks with his algerian counterpart belkacem nabi, the official algerian news agency aps said today. aqazadeh, who will be accompanied by a large delegation, will have talks on bilateral relations in the field of energy and exchange views with algerian officials on the current world energy situation, it said. reuter
0	the u.k. offshore oil industry has suffered from last year's collapse in oil prices but should not sustain any permament damage, minister of state for energy alick buchanan-smith said. the drilling, diving and supply vessels sectors had been most affected, buchanan snith told the house of commons energy committee. he noted, however, that oil companies were still spending six mln stg a day to maintain north sea production. he added that a report by the manpower services committee which said 14,000 jobs were lost in the industry in 1986 should be seen in the context of a total workforce of 300,000. prices of north sea brent-grade crude dipped to a low of 8.50 dlrs a barrel last july from a peak of over 30 dlrs the previous november. they recovered to around 18 dlrs a barrel after last december's opec meeting and brent traded today around 17.15 dlrs. buchanan-smith said the u.k. has no intention of adopting opec style quotas, noting that britian is an oil-consuming as well as an oil-producing nation. reuter
0	resource exploration inc said it has agreed to let <langasco energy corp> drill 50 oil and natural gas wells on its clinton sandstone formation within its tuscarawas and harrison county, ohio area of operation. resource said it would receive a cash payment and an overriding royalty interest on oil and gas production from wells drilled on the property. resource said gas produced from the property will be transported through its existing pipeline. also, resource said it will provide service work to complete the wells and it will operate the wells after they are completed. reuter
0	texas railroad commissioner james nugent, saying that the ailing oilpatch cannot wait for congress to act, today urged texas state lawmakers to adopt incentives to find new oil reserves and to exempt severance taxes on oil produced from stripper wells. nugent said in a speech to the texas house of representatives that the state must take the initiative in molding u.s. energy policy and finding new ways to assist troubled oil producers. his proposal to revitalize texas' oil industry would exempt stripper wells that produce 10 barrels of oil or less each day from the state's 4.6 pct severance tax. he said that the majority of texas' oil wells fall within the stripper well category and a price swing of two to three dlrs a barrel can be crucial in determining if the well remains in production. nugent also called for state lawmakers to exempt new wildcat wells from the state severance tax for up to five years as a financial incentive to explore for new oil reserves. secondary and tertiary oil production, expensive methods of production that inject water or gas into the ground to recover oil, should also be exempted from the severance tax, nugent said. his plan would exempt existing secondary and tertiary wells that produce at a rate of less than three barrels a day for three years, or until the price of oil reaches $25 a barrel. "we've been sitting back and waiting on two federal administrations to develop a coherent energy policy for the nation to follow. i say we have waited long enough," nugent said. "in other words, let's tell washington to either lead, follow, or get out of the way." nugent said that the financial losses to the state treasury by exempting marginal oil production from state severance taxes would be more than made up by stimulating new business for the oil supply and service industry. reuter
1	prospects for renewal of the five-year u.s./ussr grains agreement are uncertain at this point, a soviet trade official told reuters. the current trade imbalance between the united states and the soviet union, high u.s. commodity prices, and increased world grain production make a renewal of the supply agreement next year less certain, albert melnikov, deputy trade representative of the soviet union, said in an interview. the current agreement expires on sept 30, 1988. melnikov said that world grain markets are different than when the first agreement was signed in 1975. statements from both u.s. and soviet officials have indicate that a long term grains agreement might not be as attractive for both sides as it once was. "we have had one agreement. we have had a second agreement, but with the second agreement we've had difficulties with prices," melnikov said. "i cannot give you any forecasts in response to the future about the agreement.... i do not want to speculate on what will happen after sept 30, 1988," he said. melnikov noted that he has seen no indications from soviet government officials that they would be pushing for a renewal of the agreement. "the situation is different in comparison to three, five or ten years ago ... we can produce more," he said. reuter
1	whether the soviet union will fulfill its buying obligations under the u.s./ussr grains agreement depends entirely on the united states, a soviet trade official told reuters. "how can i tell that we are ready to fulfill the agreement if the united states does not want to offer us grain at competitive prices?" said albert melnikov, deputy trade representative of the soviet union to the united states. "we are in the market for grains, but it is up to the united states to be the seller ... to offer soviets competitive prices," he said in an interview. melnikov said that the united states has not lived up the agreement by failing to make available to moscow u.s. grain at prevailing market prices. "we are being accused of not implementing this agreement. we do not consider we are at fault," melnikov said. article i in the agreement states that "purchases/sales of commodities under this agreement will be made at the market price prevailing for these products at the time of purchase/sale and in accordance with normal commercial terms." "the united states should supply to the soviet union definite quantities of grain at competitive prices ... is the united states ready to supply this?" he said. the soviet official said that near-term corn demand has been met by the recent soviet purchases of u.s. corn, which he confirmed at 1.5 mln tonnes, but said that if u.s. corn prices remain competitive, the soviets will buy more if they need it. wheat buying, however, is a different story, melnikov said. "if the united states is interested in selling its wheat, then they must offer competitive prices, and it's up to the united states to decide how these competitive prices will be offered," he said. last year's u.s. offer of subsidized wheat to the soviets was rejected because of an insufficient subsidy, melnikov said. he said that at the time of the 13 dlr per tonne subsidy offer, u.s. wheat prices were 26 dlrs over world levels. reuter
1	the directors of the american farm bureau, the nation's largest farm organization, voted tuesday to urge congress to leave the 1985 farm bill in place without alterations. "we are solidly opposed to opening up the 1985 farm bill," said dean kleckner, president. "the current farm bill has been in place for just a little over a year and in our judgment there is more to be gained at the present time from maintaining the legislation. "several independent studies ... indicate the 1985 farm bill is better on balance than any of the alternatives being advanced," kleckner said. the farm bureau also urged agriculture secretary richard lyng to adjust the loan rate for 1987 crop soybeans as much as he deems possible under the farm bill to keep soybeans competitive in the world market. a farm bureau proposal suggests that producers should be eligible for supplemental payments in the form of pik certificates for the difference between 5.02 dlrs a bushel and the new loan rate. the organization also urged lyng to authorize deficiency payments to farmers who were unable to plant 1987 winter wheat because of adverse weather. reuter
1	israel will tender overnight for 33,000 long tons of u.s. sorghum and/or 22,000 long tons of u.s. corn for april shipment, private export sources said. reuter
1	the reagan administration's cabinet-level economic policy council is scheduled to meet friday to discuss, among other issues, the status of agricultural legislation, administration officials said. the officials said discussion of a u.s. agriculture department wheat export subsidy to the soviet union was not on the agenda. matters not on the agenda, however, can be brought before the council, the officials said. grain trade officials have speculated that usda would make a wheat export enhancement offer to moscow, but usda officials have said the matter is not under active consideration. usda today transmitted to congress a package of legislative proposals, including bills that would cut target prices and speed up loan rate reductions. reuter
0	distillate fuel stocks held in primary storage fell by 3.4 mln barrels in the week ended feb 27 to 128.4 mln barrels, the energy information administration (eia) said. in its weekly petroleum status report, the department of energy agency said gasoline stocks were off 100,000 barrels in the week to 251.5 mln barrels and refinery crude oil stocks were up 3.2 mln barrels to 333.0 mln. the eia said residual fuel stocks fell 2.2 mln barrels to 37.9 mln barrels and crude oil stocks in the strategic petroleum reserve (spr) were up 700,000 barrels to 516.5 mln. the total of all crude, refined product and spr stocks were unchanged at 1,575.1 mln barrels, it said. reuter
0	southland corp's citgo petrleum corp said it raised the contract price it will pay for all grades of crude oil by one dlr a barrel, effective today. the increase brings citgo's posted price for west texas intermediate to 17.00 dlrs a bbl. west texas sour is also now priced at 17.00 dlrs/bbl, and light louisiana south is posted at 17.35 dlrs/bbl. on february 25 citgo lowered its crude postings 50 cts to 1.50 dlrs per bbl, and cut wti one dlr to 16.00. reuter
0	u.s. oil demand as measured by products supplied rose 2.1 pct in the four weeks ended february 27 to 16.39 mln barrels per day (bpd) from 16.05 mln in the same period a year ago, the energy information administration (eia) said. in its weekly petroleum status report, the energy department agency said distillate demand was down 2.1 pct in the period to 3.37 mln bpd from 3.44 mln a year earlier. gasoline demand averaged 6.60 mln bpd, up 2.4 pct from 6.44 mln last year, while residual fuel demand was 1.47 mln bpd, up 1.9 pct from 1.44 mln, the eia said. domestic crude oil production was estimated at 8.38 mln bpd, down 8.7 pct from 9.18 mln a year ago, and gross daily crude imports (excluding those for the spr) averaged 4.11 mln bpd, up 36.9 pct from three mln, the eia said. refinery crude runs in the four weeks were 12.21 mln bpd, up 2.2 pct from 12 mln a year earlier, it said. year-to-date figures will not become available until march 26 when eia's petroleum supply monthly data for january 1987 becomes available, the agency said. reuter
1	the package of proposed farm policy changes that the reagan administration sent to congress today includes a provision that would eliminate minimum price support levels for upland cotton, rice and soybeans. the package, obtained by reuters, also includes a provision, outlined in advance by usda officials, that would increase the annual permissible cut in the basic price support levels for all major crops to 10 pct from five pct. under current law, the basic support prices for upland cotton, rice and soybeans between 1987 and 1990 cannot be cut below 50 cents per lb, 6.50 dlrs per hundredweight and 4.50 dlrs per bushel, respectively. usda's intention to propose scrapping price floors for cotton, rice and soybeans had not been disclosed previously. reuter
1	abnormally warm and dry weather over most parts of china is seriously affecting crops, the new china news agency said. it said the drought has made rice planting difficult in eight provinces, including guangxi, sichuan and hunan. plant diseases and insect pests have increased in wheat-producing areas, it said. the agency said some areas of guangxi, hubei, shanxi and other provinces have been suffering a drought for more than seven months. the agency said the dry weather had reduced the amount of water stored by more than 20 pct compared with last march, lowered the water level of many rivers, reduced hydroelectric power supplies and caused water shortages for industry and consumers. the upper reaches of the yangtze are at their lowest levels in a century, causing many ships to run aground and making harbour manoeuvres difficult, it said. the drought has also increased the number of forest fires. more than 1,000 fires in southern china had destroyed 13,340 hectares of forest by mid-february, it said. reuter
1	australian wheat shipments rose to 1.33 mln tonnes in february from 1.01 mln in january, an australian wheat board official said. february's shipments were down on the 1.54 mln tonnes shipped in february 1986. cumulative shipments for the first five months of the october/september wheat year were 6.12 mln tonnes, as against 6.54 mln a year earlier, the official said. the major destinations in february were: china (419,196 tonnes), egypt (301,909), iraq (142,055), japan (110,261), south korea (100,847) and the soviet union (100,056 tonnes). reuter
0	opec countries are all sticking firmly to official crude oil prices but the volatility of spot prices is likely to continue into the third quarter, indonesian minister of mines and energy subroto told reuters. subroto, attending a pacific energy cooperation conference, blamed recent rapid spot price changes on unbalanced supply and demand. "if we stick to the production limitation, the third quarter will be in better balance." he said the market is in a period of transition while the impact of opec's december agreement to cut output and fix prices at an average 18 dlrs a barrel is worked through. asked whether opec members of the gulf cooperation council (gcc) had any concrete proposals to help qatar sell its crude oil in the face of strong resistance to its official prices, subroto said: "apparently they have taken care of that." "they (the gcc) meet very often among themselves. i think they'll help each other," he said. subroto said that as he was not a member of opec's price differentials committee he did not know why the meeting had been postponed from its scheduled april 2 date. "maybe they find it is better not to have the meeting because ... everyone is sticking to official prices," he said. reuter
1	thailand's main paddy crop is expected to fall to 15.4 mln tonnes in the 1986/87 (nov/oct) season from a previous 15.68 mln estimate in november and an actual 17.35 mln a year ago, the thai rice mills association said. it said a joint field survey late last month by the association, the commerce ministry and the bank of thailand indicated that paddy output in thailand's northeast region is lower than expected because of a drought in several provinces. the association said rice growing areas in nakhon ratchasima, chaiyaphum, khon kaen and mahasarakam were especially affected by low rainfalls in the second half of 1986. it said last november that the drought reduced total national areas sown with paddy to some 8.25 mln hectares this year, down from 8.84 mln a year ago. the main crop represents about 85 pct of thailand's paddy output. reuter
0	the papua new guinea government will establish a public corporation to invest in resources projects, minerals and energy minister john kaputin said. "we intend to provide a means through which less privileged individuals can become part owners and beneficiaries from the development of mining and petroleum projects," he told parliament. existing policy allowing the state up to 30 pct equity in major mining projects and 22.5 pct in oil and gas projects would be maintained, he said. the planned agency could take over the state's equity in current developments. kaputin said papua new guinea was experiencing a boom with exploration companies spending about 60 mln kina annually on about 150 mining and 23 petroleum projects. "the government is determined to ensure that papua new guinean ownership in minerals and petroleum projects increases in an orderly way," he said. kaputin did not say when the corporation would be established or exactly what form it would take, but said the government would study whether it should be directly involved in exploration or development. reuter
1	the joint committee of taiwan's maize importers has awarded contracts to two u.s. companies to supply two shipments of maize, totalling 60,000 tonnes, a committee spokesman told reuters. continental grain co of new york received the first 30,000 tonne cargo contract, priced at 93.86 u.s. dlrs per tonne, while peavey co of minneapolis won the second shipment, also 30,000 tonnes, at 93.36 dlrs per tonne. both shipments are c and f taiwan and are set before march 16, the spokesman said. reuter
1	traded volumes for u.k. grain and potato futures in february were down on the previous month while pigmeat and pig cash settlement futures were higher, official figures show. combined wheat and barley futures trade declined to 892,700 tonnes from 1.19 mln in january, and the value fell to 97 mln stg from 129 mln, grain and feed trade association (gafta) figures show. a total of 984,960 tonnes were registered for main crop potato futures in february valued at 157 mln stg, versus 992,760 and 164 mln stg in january. soymeal futures trade totalled 76,340 tonnes against 90,680 in january, and value declined to nine mln stg from 10 mln. nine pigmeat contracts were traded in february, six more than in the previous month, representing 450 carcases against 150, valued at 29,347 stg against 9,847 stg. pig cash settlement futures saw 201 contracts traded, against 19 in january, and the value rose to 659,864 stg from 119,610 stg. reuter
0	ice conditions are unchanged at the soviet baltic oil port of ventspils, with continuous and compacted drift ice 15 to 30 cms thick, the latest report of the finnish board of navigation said. icebreaker assistance to reach ventspils harbour is needed for normal steel vessels without special reinforcement against ice, the report said. it gave no details of ice conditions at the other major soviet baltic export harbour of klaipeda. reuter
0	opec crude oil output in the first few days of march was running at about 14.7 mln bpd, down from a 16 mln bpd average for february and well below the 15.8 mln bpd ceiling the group adopted in december, a reuter survey shows. the figures were polled by reuters correspondents from oil traders, industry executives and analysts in europe, the middle east, africa, latin america and asia. they back recent statements by opec ministers that the group is producing within its ceiling to support the return to a fixed price system, which came into effect last month. opec output for the whole of february was about 200,000 bpd above the ceiling, largely because of overproduction by the united arab emirates and kuwait, the figures show. the uae, together with the much smaller producer ecuador, was also producing above quota in the first days of march, the survey reveals. but such overproduction was compensated for by a sharp fall in saudi arabian output, together with iran"s inability to export as much as its quota allows. iraq rejected its opec quota of 1.466 mln bpd and produced 1.75 mln bpd in february and early march, the figures showed. saudi output -- excluding movements into stocks -- fell to 3.1 mln bpd in early march from 3.5 mln bpd in february, against a 4.133 mln bpd quota. the saudi figures include a 200,000 bpd share of neutral zone production. kuwait, which has consistently denied quota violations, was estimated to be pumping 1.4 mln bpd in february and 1.15 in early march -- both figures including 200,000 bpd as its share of neutral zone output -- against its 948,000 bpd quota. reports of customer resistance to fixed prices set by some opec states were reflected in output from qatar and nigeria, both substantially under quota in february and early march. qatar's february output was 230,000 bpd, and this fell to 180,000 bpd in early march compared with its 285,000 bpd quota. industry sources say japanese buyers are resisting qatar"s prices and gulf arab oil states have pledged to make up for any shortfall in sales which a fellow gulf state suffers. nigeria's early march output was about one mln bpd, down from 1.14 mln bpd in february and its quota of 1.238 mln bpd. industry sources say nigeria's customers believe its bonny grades are overpriced compared with compatible brent crudes from the u.k. north sea. country-by-country production figures are as follows, in mln bpd - country current february quota algeria 0.64 0.64 0.635 ecuador 0.26 0.26 0.210 gabon 0.15 0.15 0.152 indonesia 1.16 1.16 1.133 iran 1.80 2.20 2.255 iraq 1.75 1.75 1.466 kuwait 1.15 1.40 0.948 libya 0.95 0.95 0.948 nigeria 1.00 1.14 1.238 qatar 0.18 0.23 0.285 saudi arabia 3.10 3.50 4.133 uae 1.10 1.15 0.902 venezuela 1.50 1.50 1.495 total 14.7 16.0 15.8 reuter reuter
1	the commodity credit corporation, ccc, has accepted bids for export bonuses to cover sales of 25,000 tonnes of wheat flour to iraq, the u.s. agriculture department said. the department said the bonuses awarded averaged 116.84 dlrs per tonne. the shipment periods are march 15-april 20 (12,500 tonnes) and april 1-may 5 (12,500 tonnes). the bonus awards were made to peavey company and will be paid in the form of commodities from ccc stocks, it said. an additional 175,000 tonnes of wheat flour are still available to iraq under the export enhancement program initative announced january 7, 1987, the department said. reuter
0	<orbit oil and gas ltd> said the value of its oil and gas reserves increased by 19 pct to 52.6 mln dlrs from 44.2 mln dlrs reported at year-end 1985, according to an independent appraisal. orbit said it has reserves of 2.4 mln barrels of oil and natural gas liquids and 67.2 billion cubic feet of natural gas. in addition, 75 pct owned <sienna resources ltd> has canadian reserves of 173,000 barrels of oil and 1.6 bcf of natural gas with a current value of 2.2 mln dlrs, orbit said. reuter
1	the commodity credit corporation, ccc, has accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover a sale of 2,000 tonnes of semolina to egypt, the u.s. agriculture department said. the department said the bonus was 233.91 dlrs per tonne and was made to international multifoods corp. the bonus will be paid in the form of commodities from ccc stocks. the semolina is for shipment during june 1987, it said. an additional 13,000 tonnes of semolina are still available to egypt under the export enhancement program initiative announced on august 6, 1986, it said. reuter
1	french operators have requested licences to export 40,000 tonnes of free market feed wheat, 32,500 tonnes of soft bread wheat, 375,000 tonnes of barley and 465,000 tonnes of maize at today's european community tender, trade sources here said. rebates requested ranged between 134 and 136.50 european currency units (ecus) a tonne for the feed wheat, 137.39 and 141.50 ecus a tonne for the bread wheat, 137.93 and 142.95 ecus for the barley and 133.75 and 140.25 ecus for the maize. reuter
0	diamond shamrock said it raised its posted prices for all grades of crude oil one dlr a barrel, effective yesterday. the one dlr increase brings west texas intermediate, wti the u.s. benchmark crude, to 17.00 dlrs a bbl, the company said. diamond shamrock joined sun co, coastal, citgo and murphy oil in raising crude oil posted prices one dlr a barrel yesterday. reuter
1	western canada's resource-based economy is being hurt by international market forces and there is little ottawa can do about it, finance minister michael wilson said. "if you can tell me how we can get the international energy price up and how we can get the price for copper up and how we can get the price for wheat up, then we will listen," wilson told the house of comnons finance committee. although under pressure from oil companies and wheat farmers for help in battling depressed commodity prices, wilson said it has to be recognized the area was a "prisoner of market forces outside the boundaries of this country." wilson, appearing before the committee to discuss the government's spending estimates released earlier this week, said the government is doing what it can in the region, citing more than 3.5 billion dlrs in aid for western agriculture. "those resources are a reflection of very real concerns on our part in dealing with a very difficult problem," wilson said in response to questions about management of the economy from opposition party members. he said the long term answer for depressed regions of the country was reaching a free trade pact with the united states, which he claimed would improve the outlook for western canada. reuter
1	u.s. agriculture secretary richard lyng does not intend to discuss a wheat export enhancement initiative to the soviet union at a cabinet-level economic policy council meeting set for tomorrow, an aide to lyng said. "he (lyng) does not intend to bring it up," the aide said, adding that the subsidy offer remains "dormant." lyng plans to spend "about five minutes" reviewing the status of farm legislation on capitol hill before the economic policy council, which is responsible for guiding the administration's economic policy, the aide said. the usda secretary met this morning with members of the house foreign affairs committee, but the handful of lawmakers present did not ask whether the administration intended to offer moscow a wheat export bonus, the aide said. reuter
0	opec output in february was "well below" the 15.8 mln bpd ceiling it set in december and all countries are strictly adhering to their quotas, the opec news agency opecna quoted an opec secretariat official as saying. the official was quoted as saying that lower output was the result "of member countries' firm determination to defend the organisation's official price of 18 dlrs per barrel, and to refrain from selling any quantity below that price." the unnamed official was further quoted as saying that no opec meeting was foreseen before the next biannual opec session planned to start on june 25. the official gave no figure for february output. the statement said only that "the reduction in total supplies, namely actual exports of crude oil and products, plus local deliveries in member countries, is even more pronounced as those supplies fell very noticeably during that month." "no matter what the pressure on member countries by lifters to align the official selling price to the ongoing market price, member countries are, without exception, strictly adhering to the official selling price in spite of the financial hardship this may entail," the statement said. "the very recent improvement in the price structure is an indicator of such determination by the organization to stick to the official selling price," the statement said. free spot market prices rose from around 14.50 dlrs a barrel in early december last year to near opec's official levels towards the end of the year, after the opec pact. there has been oil industry speculation that opec might have to hold an extraordinrary meeting prior to its scheduled june session to discuss reports of overproduction by some states and strains on the differential matrix, which prices each opec crude according to its quality and distance from main markets. the official said in the statement that no such emergency session was scheduled "because of member countries' firm determination to defend the price (system)" agreed in december. opec"s differential committee was to have met in vienna starting april 2 but this session has been postponed, with no new date set, according to an official of the united arab emirates, which chairs the seven-state body. other members are algeria, kuwait, saudi arabia, libya, nigeria and qatar. reuter
1	french cereal exports through the port of rouen fell 6.4 pct to 725,023 tonnes during the period february 1 to 25, from 774,704 for the period february 1 to 26 last year, trade sources said. main destinations were saudi arabia with 158,109 tonnes of barley, the soviet union 147,214 of wheat, italy 104,704 of wheat, spain 91,381 of wheat and maize, china 52,500 of wheat and algeria 41,000 of wheat. between february 26 and today, five ships have loaded 137,000 tonnes of cereals, the sources added. the 137,000 tonnes comprised 59,500 tonnes of wheat for china, 53,000 of wheat for the soviet union and 24,500 of wheat for algeria. by this friday, sources estimated a further 233,600 tonnes of cereals will have been loaded, comprising 47,000 tonnes of barley, 78,600 of wheat and 25,000 of rapeseed for the soviet union, 30,000 of wheat for sri lanka, 28,000 of wheat for china and 25,000 of wheat for poland. reuter
0	a presidential commission that has been studying oil imports, including their effect on national security, is to to make its report soon, the white house said. spokesman marlin fitzwater said the panel, set up last october to examine u.s. oil import needs, would make its report soon, probably within the next few weeks. he said national security adviser frank carlucci "will wait until that report is in and then see if there is any special action needed to be taken in the national security area to implement it." reuter
0	strong winds and high seas today closed alexandria, egypt's biggest port, and an oil pipeline terminal nearby, officials said. facilities of the suez-mediterranean arab petroleum pipelines company at sidi kreir, 32 km southeast of alexandria, were closed this morning after one tanker loaded and sailed. officials said that five other tankers were waiting outside the terminal for conditions to improve. reuter
1	the european community's cereal management committee rejected all bids to export free market soft wheat at today's weekly tender, traders said. the committee awarded 123,000 tonnes of free market barley export licences at a maximum export refund of 138.75 ecus per tonne.
1	the ec commission rejected all bids for free market bread-making and feed wheat and all bids for the special west german tender at today's weekly ec cereals tender, trade sources said here. it granted export licences for 123,000 tonnes of free market barley at a maximum rebate of 138.75 ecus per tonne and 25,000 tonnes of maize at a maximum rebate of 133.75 ecus, they said. licences for 100,000 tonnes of the barley were awarded to french trade houses, they added. reuter
1	world grain trade could be turning the corner and heading toward recovery in the 1986-87 season, a cargill, inc. analyst said. writing in the march issue of the cargill bulletin, david rogers of cargill's commodity marketing division cited a gradual rise in world wheat trade in recent months, with a slow rise in wheat prices after recent historic lows. he said the wheat trade, because wheat can be produced in many nations, is a good barometer of world grain trade and could lead to more activity in other grain markets. rogers said that with world grain prices at their lowest level in over a quarter of a century in real terms, demand has begun to rise while producing nations are re-examining their expensive price-support policies and reducing planted acres. reuter
0	non-opec egypt produced 40.3 mln tonnes (about 295 mln barrels) of crude in 1986 against 44.3 mln tonnes (about 323 mln barrels) in 1985, according to official figures released today by the egyptian general petroleum corp. (egpc). officials say egypt can produce up to one mln bpd per day, but production was cut when world prices plunged last year. in an attempt to help opec stabilize the world market, egypt cut its 1987 production target of 940,000 bpd to its current output of 870,000 bpd. egypt, which exports a third of its output, currently sells its top suez and ras bahar blends for 17.25 dlrs a barrel. reuter
1	the european commission authorised the export of 33,500 tonnes of irish intervention barley at today's tender for non-european community destinations at 53.10 ecus per tonne, grain traders said. reuter
1	the ec commission decided to open a special daily export rebate today for maize exports to morocco, israel, canary islands and zone 5c (sub-saharan africa), trade sources said here. the rebate was set at 153 european currency units per tonne for march and 133 for april through july. reuter
1	a house agriculture committee meeting later today to draft a disaster aid bill is expected to spark a debate between lawmakers who want to expand the 0/92, or "de-coupling," provision to cover feedgrains, and those who oppose 0/92 or want it severely limited, congressional sources said. the disaster aid bill as it now stands calls for a one-year 0/92 pilot program for 1987 crop wheat and the 1988 winter wheat crop. the bill would allow farmers to forego planting and still receive 92 pct of deficiency payments. the administration has strongly urged that the bill be expanded to feedgrains and to more than one year. it is difficult to tell in what form the 0/92 provision will emerge from the committee, the sources said. proponents of an expansion of 0/92 maintain there are large estimated cost savings of such a bill -- ranging from estimates by the administration of 200 to 500 mln dlrs. opposition to a reopening of the 1985 farm bill at this time is the major reason cited by those against an expansion of the bill, committee staffers said. the 0/92 plan is scheduled to be discussed at 1530 est. a conflicting floor vote delayed the start of the meeting, and staffers said it may have to be delayed even until next week. such a delay would not bode well for proponents of an expanded 0/92 program, since spring planting in many areas of the country will be underway in the next few weeks and signup for the 1987 wheat and feedgrains program ends march 30. farmers are now making their planting decisions, so something has to be done quickly if a 0/92 program is to be implemented, an agriculture department source said. an expansion of 0/92 to feedgrains was opposed in last week's subcommittee hearing on the bill, with subcommittee chairman dan glickman, d-kan., saying that more study of the consequences of decoupling on feedgrains plantings was necessary. major commodity groups, including the national corn growers, the american farm bureau and the national cattlemen's association, have voiced strong opposition to 0/92. but proponents of an expanded 0/92 argue that the bill currently is not equitable for all grains producers, so it should be extended to other crops. there will be difficulty in limiting 0/92 to wheat, said gene moos, aide to house majority leader tom foley, d-wash. projected cost savings, in the current atmosphere of try to decrease farm expenditures, would also be hard to ignore in the debate to expand the 0/92 application, moos said. rep. charles stenholm, d-tex., may be planning to introduce a bill to restrict 0/92 to only 1987 crop wheat, with the argument that now is not the time to vote in favor of any major changes in the farm bill. "stenholm's bill is not a rejection of 0/92, only of the timing," a congressional staff member said. rep. arland stangeland (r-minn.) is reported to have an amendment to expand the 0/92 provision to 1987 and 1988 feedgrains. reuter
1	china has added 90,000 tonnes of u.s. wheat to its purchases for delivery in the 1987/88 season and cancelled 30,000 tonnes of wheat purchases for delivery in the 1986/87 season, the u.s. agriculture department said. according to the department's export sales report covering transactions in the week ended february 26, china has outstanding wheat commitments for the 1986/87 season of 30,000 tonnes and 420,000 tonnes for delivery in the 1987/88 season. the wheat season begins june 1. china has total corn commitments for 1986/87 of 1,011,200 tonnes and soybeans commitments of 157,500 tonnes. the season for corn and soybeans began september 1. reuter
0	opec conference president rilwanu lukman said the group was producing well below the 15.8 mln bpd ceiling it set in december, partly because liftings had been delayed or postponed by customers unwilling to pay fixed opec prices. lukman, during a brief visit to london on his way home from jamaica, told reuters in a telephone interview that in february, opec had underproduced partly because members were strictly abiding by production quotas and partly because they were resisting the temptation to sell at discounts to official prices of around 18 dlrs a barrel. "we are determined to stand firm by the (december) accord," he said. "i have spoken to every other opec minister and they are committed to making the accord work," he said. lukman gave no specific figures for february output. he said the opec secretariat in vienna was finalizing these figures. told of a reuters survey published today which estimated that opec output so far this week was below 15 mln bpd, he said; "that could well be correct." opec"s news agency opecna today issued a statement saying group output was "well below" its ceiling in february. but it gave no figures. but one source close to opec indicated that february output may have been between 15.3 and 15.5 mln bpd. the reuter survey estimated opec february output at around 16 mln bpd. opec agreed in december to cut output by 7.25 pct to 15.8 mln bpd and to return to fixed prices starting february 1. lukman said qatar, nigeria, saudi arabia and iran had all produced in february below their opec quotas. iraq, which said it would not honour its 1.466 mln bpd quota under the december pact, had produced less than had been anticipated, he said. lukman said that some industry reports "may be correct" that in february, nigeria propuced 75-100,000 bpd below its 1.238 mln bpd quota, saudi arabia 500,000 bpd less than its 4.133 mln allocation and qatar 20 to 30 pct under its 285,000 bpd quota. he said that sweet crudes such as those produced by his country were coming under price pressure because they were currently officially priced above sweet north sea grades and the united states" west texas intermediate (wti) crude. however, he said opec in december had anticipated that demand would be slack at this time of year for seasonal reasons and expected the market to firm in two to three weeks. "we have to be patient for two or three weeks. the market is now firming on actual fundamentals," he said, adding that he expected it to go "up and up" even beyond official prices after early april. this is when, traditionally, there is more demand for gasoline-rich crudes such as nigeria"s. the opec president said producers such as kuwait, venezuela and indonesia were having less problems with output than producers like his own country because they exported oil products. also, some of venezuela"s heavy grades were outside the opec pricing system, he said. lukman said that if refiner-buyers, now refusing to lift some opec oil at official prices, instead used their own stocks and ran them down to "dangerous levels," they would eventually have to buy opec oil. "when they realise it is not a free-for-all (in the market) they will realise they should buy now instead of paying more later on," he said. lukman, asked about industry reports that nigeria was being pressured by equity producers for better terms, said it was important to know that terms with them were negotiable, flexible and under constant review, not only when the market seemed weak. he said that so far, no meeting of the seven-nation ministerial differentials committee had been scheduled and that such a meeting, now twice-postponed, was not a high priority for opec at the moment. "at this time, we have to get our priorities right," he said. "the most important thing now is ensuring that the accord is working, not dealing with a differential of cents between grades." but if any opec member raised concerns or objections over the differential system, a meeting would be called, he said. reuter
1	a house agriculture committee meeting to draft a disaster aid bill containing a controversial 0/92 provision has been postponed until next tuesday, committee staff members announced. the bill contains a provision implementing a 0/92 acreage reduction plan for 1986 wheat and 1987 winter wheat, thereby making payments available to farmers who were not able to plant last year's winter wheat crop because of flooding. controversy exists over whether the 0/92 provisions of the bill should be expanded, cut back or left as is. reuter
1	brazil has suspended the importation of 500,000 tonnes of maize ordered last year because of the excellent domestic maize harvest expected this year, agriculture minister iris resende said. the agriculture ministry expects a record maize crop of 27.7 mln tonnes, a 36 pct increase on last year's crop of 20.3 mln tonnes. brazil's total grain crop is expected to be 65.3 mln tonnes. "this is a record in the history of brazilian agriculture," a ministry spokesman said. resende announced suspension of the maize imports at a news conference in brasilia yesterday. the ministry spokesman said he had no other details on the maize transaction. reuter
0	renewed confidence in opec's ability to limit production helped u.s. energy futures settle above yesterday's closing prices, according to analysts. they also said the heating oil contract found additional support from a short-covering rally on the close. april crude closed 24 cts higher to 17.75 dlrs. april heating oil was 1.47 cts higher to 47.91 cts a gallon. "most traders expected follow through profit-taking from yesterday but the market found suport from bullish reports that opec is producing within its quota," said simon greenshields, a vice president with morgan stanley and co inc. news today, including opec president rilwanu lukman statement that opec february production did not exceed its official quota of 15.8 mln barrels per day, helped bouy prices, traders said. a reuter survey found opec production in early march was 14.7 mln bpd. in addition to short-covering, heating oil found support from traders buying it against sales of gasoline and crude, as well as from expectations for continued drawdowns in stocks as refiners shut down for maintenance, traders said. unleaded gasoline for april finished 0.55 cent higher to 51.24 cts a gallon. reuter
1	corn sales gained 2,494,900 tonnes in the week ended february 26, the highest weekly total since august 1984 and two and three-quarter times the prior week's level, the u.s. agriculture department said. in comments on its export sales report, the department said sales of 1.0 mln tonnes to the ussr -- previously reported under the daily reporting system -- were the first sales for delivery to the ussr under the fourth year of the u.s.-ussr grains supply agreement, which began october 1. japan added 689,700 tonnes to previous purchases and sales to unknown destinations rose by 429,800 tonnes. wheat sales of 362,400 tonnes for the current season and 151,000 for the 1987/88 season were down by more than half from the previous week's combined sales, it said. egypt, japan and iraq were the major wheat buyers for delivery in the current year, while sales to china decreased by 30,000 tonnes for the current season, but increased by 90,000 tonnes for the 1987/88 season, which begins june 1. net sales of soybeans totalling 274,200 tonnes equaled the preceding week, but were nearly a third below the four week average. major increases were for belgium, south korea, mexico and italy, it said. soybean cake and meal sales of 103,700 tonnes were 2-3/4 times the previous week's marketing year low, but six pct less than the four week average. major increases for west germany, belgium, spain, italy and australia were partially offset by declines to unknown destinations. soybean oil sales of 5,400 tonnes were the result of increases for venezuela and reductions of 500 tonnes for unknown destinations. combined sales activity in cotton of 75,200 running bales -- 44,700 bales for the current year and 30,500 bales for the 1987/88 bales -- were 56 pct below the prior week's good showing, the department said. major purchasers for the current season were south korea, japan, taiwan and thailand, while south korea and indonesia were the major buyers for the 1987/88 season, which begins august 1. reuter
1	key members of the house agriculture committee have agreed to scale-back the 0/92 provision of a pending disaster aid bill to cover only 1987 crop wheat, but a broader 0/92 proposal is likely to be resurrected later, congressional sources said. the sources said key lawmakers including reps. glenn english (d-okla.), and dan glickman (d-kan.) agreed to support an amendment to be offered next week by rep. charles stenholm (d-tex.) which would limit 0/92 only to producers of 1987 crop winter and spring wheat. this would scale-back the 0/92 provision to the original proposal by english allowing a pilot 0/92 program for 1987 wheat only. that provision was later broadened by the subcommittee to include 1988 crop winter wheat. under 0/92, a farmer can forego planting a crop but still collect 92 pct of deficiency payments. earlier today, the house agriculture committee postponed until next tuesday a meeting to consider the disaster aid bill and 0/92. the agreement to limit 0/92 to a wheat pilot program follows vocal criticism of the proposal by some influential farm groups who are concerned about the major impact of 0/92, and by members of congress wary of reopening the farm bill. congressional sources said there has not been enough time to study the implications of a broad 0/92. "the timing (of the proposal) is off," said one aide to a house agriculture committee member. however, several congressional sources said they expect a broader 0/92 provision to emerge again when the house agriculture committee is faced next month with the need to make spending cuts in the agriculture budget for fiscal 1988 as part of an overall deficit reduction package. gene moos, aide to house majority leader tom foley (d-wash.), predicted agriculture's share of budget cuts may exceed one billion dlrs. a broader 0/92 might be resurrected later because both the congressional budget office and the reagan administration estimate it would result in significant budget savings. a u.s. agriculture department official said 0/92 for all 1987 crops would save 300 to 400 mln dlrs and more than 1.5 billion dlrs over five years. another factor which could affect the 0/92 debate is the approach of planting season, congressional sources said. some officials said it already is late for implementation of a 0/92 in 1987 because farm program signup ends march 31 for wheat and feedgrains. if congress approved 0/92 later in the year sign-up either would have to be extended or reopened, sources said. reuter
0	south africa's state-owned energy firm soekor said it would continue tests after striking oil some 120 kms (75 miles) south-southwest of mossel bay. during production tests, about 5,000 barrels of oil and five mln cubic feet of gas per day were produced, it said. "this oil discovery will be followed-up as soon as possible by further seismic surveys and drilling. should further drilling and tests in the area yield positive results oil production from a floating platform could be considered." director general of mineral and energy affairs louw alberts announced the strike earlier but said it was uneconomic. reuter
0	greece, replying to a warning from turkey that it will stop athens from seeking oil in the aegean sea, repeated today that it has an exclusive right to decide where or when to drill in the area. a government spokesman said in a statement that if ankara believed greece was contravening international law, it could bring the issue before the courts. the spokesman was responding to a statement by turkish foreign ministry spokesman yalim eralp that ankara would take action to stop greece's oil activities beyond its territorial waters as they were a violation of the 1976 berne accord. reuter
0	opec produced an average 16.1 mln barrels per day (bpd) of crude oil in february, down from 16.5 mln the previous month and an overall 17.3 mln bpd in fourth quarter 1986, the international energy agency said. a few opec countries last month exceeded the production quotas set at their last conference in december, but liftings were reduced from several countries, it said in its latest monthly oil market report. these cutbacks were due in part to buyer resistance to fixed prices, introduced from february 1, particularly for fixed volumes over an extended period. it gave this breakdown for opec crude output, in mln bpd fourth qtr 1986 january 1987 february 1987 saudi arabia 4.9 3.7 3.8 iran 1.6 2.2 1.9 iraq 1.6 1.6 1.7 uae 1.3 1.2 1.2 kuwait 1.0 1.0 1.0 neutral zone 0.5 0.4 0.4 qatar 0.3 0.3 0.2 nigeria 1.3 1.2 1.2 libya 1.0 1.0 1.0 fourth qtr 1986 january 1987 february 1987 algeria 0.6 0.6 0.6 gabon 0.1 0.2 0.2 venezuela 1.6 1.6 1.6 ecuador 0.2 0.2 0.2 indonesia 1.3 1.2 1.2 total 17.3 16.5 16.1 the iea said while saudi production stayed below its quota of 4.133 mln bpd, actual sales might exceed output due to norbec stock disposals. contracts for saudi crude have been signed, but it is understood they have much leeway in required liftings. the report said the reduction in iraqi air attacks on iranian export facilities allowed iran's output to reach 2.2 mln bpd in january, but buyer resistance to fixed prices apparently cut february production. it said iraqi exports are about 1.0 mln bpd through the turkish pipeline, 0.1-0.2 mln by truck through jordan and 0.2-0.3 mln via the saudi pipeline to yanbu. internal consumption is some 0.3 mln bpd. the iea estimated total non-communist world oil supply in february at 45.0 mln bpd, down from 45.4 mln in january and 47.0 mln in the fourth quarter. the february world supply figure is made up of 16.1 mln bpd opec crude production, 1.4 mln bpd opec natural gas liquids (ngls), 16.6 mln bpd oecd crude and ngls, 8.3 mln bpd other developing countries' crude and ngls, net trade of 1.1 mln bpd with centrally planned economies, 0.5 mln bpd of non-conventional crudes (such as tar sands and oil from coal) and 1.0 mln bpd from processiing gains. within the oecd, preliminary norwegian data show record 1.06 mln bpd output in january, with lower production expected in february in accordance with government curtailments of approximately 80,000 bpd, announced in support of opec. reuter
1	a majority of the senate agriculture committee urged president reagan to reverse his opposition to export subsidies to the soviet union as a way to get its negotiators to purchase some 500 mln dlrs in american wheat. the group, led by committee chairman patrick leahy, a vermont democrat, urged reagan to step up negotiations with the soviet union by providing export subsidies to help u.s. farmers. reuter
0	the mexican state oil company petroleos mexicanos (pemex) said its far east customers would be charged 17.25 dlrs per barrel for isthmus crude in february and 14.45 dlrs for the heavier maya. pemex said this was 32 cts less than january isthmus and 15 cts less than january maya. far east customers, primarily japan which buys an average 180,000 barrels per day of which 150,000 is isthmus, pay retroactively while european and u.s. clients are charged per delivery. reuter
0	permian corp said that effective march 5 it raised its posted prices for crude oil 50 cts a barrel. the raise brought its posted prices for west texas intermediate up by 50 cts to 17.00 dlrs a barrel. west texas sour was also raised by 50 cts to 17.00 dlrs a barrel. a permian spokesman said that the south louisiana sweet posted prices was also raised 50 cts a barrel to 17.35 dlrs. reuter
1	the canadian import tribunal ruled today subsidized u.s. corn imports were injurious to canadian growers and upheld a countervailing duty of 84.9 u.s. cts a bushel set earlier this year. the ruling is the result of trade action launched in 1985 by the ontario corn producers association that contended u.s. subsidies were driving american corn prices below canadian production costs. a spokesman for the department of revenue said a study of the level of the duty will be undertaken in the next six months to determine if it should be adjusted. reuter
0	ecuador today suspended its crude oil exports indefinitely due to an earthquake last night that damaged pumping and crude transport installations, an energy and mines ministry statement said. it said the state oil firm corporacion estatal petrolera ecuatoriana (cepe) notified foreign customers that it was declaring force majeure on its crude exports due to the tremor. ecuador"s opec oil output quota is 210,000 barrels per day (bpd). a senior energy ministry official said that one pumping station at el salado on ecuador's main pipeline was damaged. he also said an 180 metre section of the pipeline attached to the bridge over the aguarico river collapsed. the pumping station was about 20 km from the reventador volcano, near the epicentre of the quake, which ecuadorean seismologists said registered six on the 12-point international mercalli scale. the aguarico bridge was also close to the volcano, he said. the quake struck northern ecaudor and southern colombia, according to ecuadorean officials. no injuries were reported. reuter
1	u.s. agriculture secretary richard lyng said he is "very disappointed" by a canadian government finding that u.s. corn has injured ontario corn growers. "this action is not helpful in the context of the ongoing u.s.-canada free trade talks or in the new round of multilateral trade negotiations," lyng said in a statement. the canadian government today said ottawa would continue to apply a duty of 84.9 cents per bushel on u.s. corn imports. lyng said the u.s. made a case that u.s. corn imports are not the cause of any problem of canadian corn producers, adding that u.s. corn exports to canada are declining. "apparently they (canada) have ignored the fact that canadian corn and other coarse grain production is rising faster than consumption," lyng said. reuter
1	the u.s. national association of wheat growers (nawg) urged the reagan administration offer the soviet union wheat under the export enhancement program (eep). in a letter to agriculture secretary richard lyng, nawg stated its "strong support" for an eep offer to moscow. "we believe that a solid case continues to exist for soviet eep eligibility, and the recently announced and reported soviet purchases of u.s. corn indicate a soviet willingness to purchase u.s. grain if it is competitively priced," nawg said. "consequently, we believe it is important to renew the u.s. eep offer and do all that is reasonably possible to ensure mutual adherence to the terms of the u.s.-soviet grain agreement," the letter said. reuter
1	the reagan administration continues to debate whether to offer subsidized wheat to the soviet union, but would need assurances from the soviets that they would buy the wheat before the subsidy offer would be made, a senior u.s. agriculture department official said. "i think it still is under active debate whether or not it would be advisable" to make an the export enhancement offer to the soviets, thomas kay, administrator of the department's foreign agriculture service, told reuters. "we'd need some assurances from them (the soviets) that they would buy if offered" the wheat under the subsidy plan, he said. kay called reports that such an offer was imminent "premature." the reagan administration's cabinet-level economic policy council is set to meet today to discuss, among other matters, agricultural policy but is not expected to address a wheat subsidy offer to the soviet union, administration officials said earlier. reuter
1	u.s. trade representative clayton yeutter said canada's finding announced today that u.s. corn imports injure canadian farmers is "totally unjustified." "u.s. corn exports to canada are so small that it is inconceivable that they injure canadian corn farmers by any reasonable measure," yeutter said in a statement. he said if other countries follow canada's lead it could result in "a rash of protectionist actions throughout the world." french corn growers have recently indicated they will challenge u.s. corn gluten feed shipments to europe. yeutter said the u.s. will examine the canadian decision closely and if the u.s. believes the decision was not based on facts, "will carefully evaluate appropriate responses." yeutter did not say what steps the u.s. may take in response. reuter
0	colombian oil installations were not damaged by an earthquake which shook ecuador and southern colombia last night and there are no plans to suspend exports, a spokesman for the state-run oil company ecopetrol said. he said no damage was reported, unlike in ecuador where indefinite force majeure was declared on crude exports. colombia currently produces about 360,000 barrels per day (bpd) of crude. exports in january totalled 123,000 bpd. the quake, which in colombia measured between 6.5 and seven on the 12-point international mercalli scale, caused panic among residents but no injuries were reported. reuter
0	u.s. crude oil prices rose above 18 dlrs a barrel this week and industry analysts said the price could rise another dollar as inventories fall. "opec is keeping its production down, and in the cash market there is tight supply of crude with short transportation time to major refining centers," said daniel mckinley, oil analyst with smith barney, harris upham and co. "that could send prices 50 cts to a dollar higher," he added. the u.s. benchmark crude west texas intermediate rose to 18.15 dlrs a barrel today, a rise of 1.50 dlrs this week. the rally in oil prices this week came after prices fell in february more than two dlrs from its high of 18.25 dlrs a barrel. "oil traders were pulling prices down on the assumption that oil stocks were building and opec was producing well above its 15.8 mln bpd quota, but now both of those assumptions have come under question," mckinley said. yesterday the international energy agency in its monthly report said that oil stocks in the oecd area, or in industrialized nations, were drawn down by 1.3 mln bpd during the first quarter of this year. iea estimates that the draw in oil stocks during the first quarter of this year will come largely from oil companies whose inventory levels by april one will be an estimated 326 mln tonnes, or about 74 days consumption. industry analysts also said the estimate of a 3.5 mln bpd draw in stocks made by shell chairman peter holmes yesterday fed speculation that other major companies were destocking. traders said the destocking has come about as a result of a so-called buyers strike, which kept refiners from buying officially priced opec oil in an effort to get the organization to offer discounts to the official price. "this struggle between the companies and opec is the ultimate game of chicken but it will be resolved relatively soon. i would imagine by about the middle of the month (march)," the general trading manager of an international oil company told reuters in a telephone interview. for its part opec has moved to win this game by cutting excess supplies from the market by a reduction of its own output, traders said. a reuter survey estimates opec output to be 14.7 mln bpd this week. also, an earthquake in ecuador yesterday led it to suspend oil exports indefintiely and force majeure its shipments. "this will reduce short-haul availabilities by about 250,000 bpd almost immediately and the longer the suspension continues, the larger the draw in stocks will be for companies expecting it to be there," mckinley said. international oil traders said that other short-haul crudes, such as north sea brent, were also scarce because asian refiners bought the oil after absorbing a lot of the readily available mideast crudes earlier this week. if this pattern continues then oil companies will bid up the price of oil as they purchase for their refineries, trading managers at several companies told reuters. but there were skeptics who said they wondered how long opec can retain its unity if buyer resistance continues. stephen hanke, chief economist at friedburg commodity management, said opec production was lower "because of the saudi cut (to 3.1 mln bpd) and this could spell trouble if it gives other members an incentive to exceed their quotas." he added, "the saudis will be picking up the tab for other members who produce over their quota, and the drain on the saudis will continue, forcing them to cut output maybe as low as 2.5 mln bpd to support the 18 dlrs average price," he added. there are also signs of some opec crudes being sold in the spot market at below opec official prices, traders said. oil traders said nigerian brass river sold for delivery into the u.s. gulf at a price related to north sea brent, which traded this week at 17.60 dlrs, far below the official price of 18.92 dlrs for the similar quality bonny light. iranian oil is also surfacing in the u.s. gulf and the far east at reported discounts to its 17.50 dlrs official price. "there is a lot of oil priced on government-to-government deals, which are below official prices and this is probably being resold," one international trader said. reuter
0	iranian oil minister gholamreza aqazadeh arrived in algiers at the head of a large delegation for talks on stabilizing oil prices, the official news agency aps said. in a brief arrival statement, he said iran and algeria were engaged in "continuous and stronger cooperation" on the world petroleum market and had "deployed considerable efforts to stablise petroleum prices." he was greeted on arrival by belkacem nabi, the algerian minister of energy, chemical and petro-chemical industries. reuter
1	the u.s. feedgrains council is surprised and disappointed by the canadian import tribunal's decision that imports of corn from the u.s. are materially injuring canadian corn producers, a council spokesman said. "at a time when the world is attempting to liberalize trade in the new rounnd of multilateral negotiations, it is incomprehensible that a country that stands to gain so much from the reduction in agricultural trade barriers would threaten that process by caving in to pressures for protectionism," council president darwin e. stolte said. canada's finding will strain the u.s./canadian trading relationship, could damage the future of u.s. feedgrains support for the free trade negotiations, and also negatively impact farm trade reform with other nations, the council said. reuter
1	u.s. agriculture secretary richard lyng said no decisions were taken today at a white house economic policy council meeting. speaking to reporters on his return from the meeting, lyng said only about five minutes of the session dealt with agriculture issues. "it was not a decision making meeting," lyng said. aides to lyng earlier said the administration's agriculture legislative proposals would be the farm-related topic on the agenda. lyng would not comment on what farm issues were discussed. asked how he would respond to farm groups and congressmen urging the u.s. to offer a wheat bonus to the soviet union, lyng said he would be listen but be "non-committal." reuter
1	advocates of a 0/92 plan for feedgrains will likely delay offering their proposals if a disaster aid bill before the house agriculture committee is scaled back to include only 1987 winter wheat, congressional sources said. the disaster aid bill, introduced by rep. glenn english (d-okla.), sparked sharp controversy with its proposals to implement a 0/92 program for 1987 wheat and 1988 winter wheat. an agreement has been reached to trim the bill back to 1987 wheat, but supporters of a 0/92 feedgrains plan said even that scaled-down version would not be equitable for farmers. unless the english bill pertains only to 1987 winter wheat, it is more than a simple disaster payment and feedgrains should be treated equally, they said. if the bill is narrowed to just winter wheat, then supporters of a 0/92 feedgrains amendment will probably not offer their proposals next week, sources said. english has agreed to support an amendment by rep. charles stenholm (r-tex) to narrow the bill to 1987 wheat only, but whether he would also back a further reduction is unclear. agricultural aides to english said the congressman's first choice is to make the option available to all 1987 wheat farmers. however, if the political reality is that disaster aid for winter wheat farmers would be unavailable because of controversy over spring wheat, then english might consider an even greater cutback in the bill, they said. under a 0/92 plan, farmers could forego planting and still receive 92 pct of deficiency payments. rep. arlan stangeland (r-minn.) and harold volkmer (d-mo.) have both expressed interest in expanding the english bill to include a 0/92 program for feedgrains. an aide said stangeland does not want to reopen the farm bill, but to be fair to all crops. only a small percentage of spring wheat farmers would likely sign up for 0/92 since the incentives to plant are greater than to idle the land, economists said. opponents to a 0/92 feedgrains program argue it is premature to make major changes in the farm bill and that the house agriculture committee needs to study more closely the impacts of such a program. reuter
1	canada's ruling in favor of a duty on u.s. corn was a keen disappointment to the national corn growers association and has set a dangerous precedent for other nations to follow, said mike hall, lobbyist for the association. "the french corn growers will clearly charge ahead now and just change corn to corn gluten feed" in their complaint, hall told reuters. a canadian government agency ruled today that u.s. farm policies are causing injury to canadian corn farrmers and supported an earlier imposed countervailing duty of about 85 cts per bushel. "this was cleary a political decision," hall said. "the amount of corn we export to canada is insignificant." the unexpected ruling appeared to be based on the agrument that canada bases its corn prices on u.s. futures prices and that american farm policy has driven down these prices, thus causing lower prices to canadian farmers and larger government payments through its farm stabilization program, hall said. hall said this is a new definition for injury, but that other nations might also now apply this same argument to attack u.s. farm programs. the french corn growers could now charge that u.s. farm programs create an unfair subsidy for corn gluten feed, hall said. the french have long wanted to control the imports of u.s. corn gluten feed into the community, saying that the imported feed was unfairly displacing european grain. reuter
1	an american farm bureau federation (afbf) official said that far from hurting canadian corn producers, u.s. farm programs benefit all foreign producers. afbf president dean kleckner made the comments in response to the ruling earlier today by the canadian import tribunal that subsidized u.s. corn imports were injurious to canadian growers. the tribunal upheld a countervailing duty of 84.9 u.s. cents a bushel. "farm bureau specialists went to ottawa and testified previous u.s. farm programs have actually benefited all foreign producers by reducing the amount of corn grown in the u.s. (and losing market share), while exerting an upward influence on the price of corn worldwide," he said. reuter
1	a government official said that a decision by brazil not to import maize because it forecast a record harvest would not affect argentina's exports. "we have heard nothing about this, but if brazil has decided not to import maize that is no problem for us as it is not one of our main customers," agriculture, livestock and fisheries under-secretary miguel braceras said. private sources also said argentina's exports would not be affected by brazil's decision, which agriculture minister iris resende announced yesterday in sao paulo. brazil had not asked for any argentine maize, they said. they also said a smaller crop and adverse weather this summer in argentina had reduced production. braceras said that last year brazil bought 800,000 tonnes of argentine maize but in some years it had not imported any from argentina. the soviet union was argentina's main customer and japan was also becoming a bigger importer of the country's maize, he said. reuter
0	opec member ecuador adopted austerity measures to conserve fuel after oil production was paralyzed by a strong earthquake. energy and mines minister javier espinosa announced on television the country would cut domestic fuel sales by 30 pct. a ministry statement had earlier announced indefinite suspension of crude oil exports, declaring force majeure. deputy energy minister fernando santos alvite told a television interviewer that it could possibly take more than a month to repair ecuador's main pipeline linking amazon basin oil fields to the pacific ocean coast. the quake on thursday, which registered six on the 12-point mercalli scale, killed at least six people and was centred near the reventador volcano about 90 km (50 miles) east of quito. ecuador had recently been pumping 260,000 barrels per day. the government's austerity measures ban the sale of aviation fuel to foreign airliners on international routes and no fuel will be available for ships owned by foreign lines. ecuador also banned the sale of petrol on weekends and holidays and limited sales on weekdays, an energy and mines ministry communique said. reuter
0	turkey oil pipeline near the southern town of adana after it was cut by a landslide, the hurriyet and anatolian news agencies said. little oil was lost in the landslide friday night because taps on the one mln bpd line were switched off after the accident, they said. the pipeline, which carries oil for turkey and other customers from iraq's kirkuk field to the yumurtalik terminal on the turkish mediterranean coast, is iraq's main oil outlet. reuter
0	the suspension of ecuador's crude oil shipments after an earthquake cut an oil pipeline will last at least four months, a senior energy ministry official said. the official said ecuador could resume exports after repairing a 40 km section of the 510 km pipeline, which links jungle oil fields at lago agrio to balao on the pacific coast. it would take about 100 mln u.s. dlrs to repair the pipeline, the official, who did not want to be named, told reuters. ecuador had enough oil to meet domestic demand for about 35 days and would have to import crude to supplement stocks. the earthquake last thursday night registered six on the 12-point international mercalli scale. the damage to the pipeline was a severe economic blow to ecuador, where oil accounts for up to two-thirds of total exports and as much as 60 pct of government revenues. financially pressed ecuador, a member of the organisation of petroleum exporting countries (opec), was recently pumping about 260,000 barrels per day (bpd) of crude, about 50,000 bpd above the output quota assigned by the cartel, another energy ministry spokesman said. last year, it exported an average of 173,500 bpd, according to the central bank. however, ecuador might build an emergency 25 km pipeline, costing 15 to 20 mln dlrs, to hook up with a colombian pipeline, the first official said. he estimated it could take about 60 days to build. ecuador, squeezed by the slide in world oil prices in 1986, had only 138 mln dlrs in net international reserves at the end of january, about equal to one month's imports. it suspended interest payments in january on 5.4 billion dlrs owed to about 400 private foreign banks. the country's total foreign debt is 8.16 billion dlrs, the eighth largest in latin america. in caracas, president jaime lusinchi said venezuela would loan five mln barrels of crude to ecuador over the next three months to make up for losses from damage to the pipeline. ecuador asked for the loan to guarantee domestic supplies and would ship an equivalent volume back to venezuela in repayment in may, lusinchi said. a commission headed by venezuelan investment fund minister hector hurtado and including representatives from the interior and defence ministries and the state oil company petroleos de venezuela will travel to ecuador tuesday to evaluate and co-ordinate an emergency relief program, he said. reuter
0	japanese customers have bought nearly six mln barrels of crude oil from the national iranian oil company (nioc) at a substantial discount to the official price, and western traders have received even larger discounts, japanese traders involved in the transactions told reuters. nioc has sold its crude for march shipment to japanese customers with different formulas. one company has bought 800,000 barrels of iranian heavy at a straight discount of 30-35 cents below the official price, the sources said. other deals have been fixed with prices linked to oman and dubai spot prices less a discount, they said. iran's discounted sales have not, however, managed to reverse the bullish tone in the crude oil and products spot markets, oil traders said. market sentiment is being influenced more by the colder weather in europe, and reports that opec's february output was below its self-imposed quota of 15.8 mln barrels per day. firmer gas oil on the london futures, and more bullish sentiment on the new york mercantile exchange futures market are supporting spot price levels, they said. another japanese trading house has paid the official price but through a processing arrangement will effectively receive a discount, the sources said. "it's just disguised cheating," one japanese trader said. the sources said only one japanese company had paid the official price for iranian oil. it has purchased 1.5 mln barrels of iranian heavy for april shipment for refining in singapore. they said about nine vlccs of iranian crude have been sold to western traders with pricing based 60 pct on the official price and 40 pct on spot prices, or with part of the price related to processing arrangements.
0	the u.s. <amoco petroleum corp> has reported an offshore oil find at its pearl river basin concession in the south china sea, the new china news agency said. it said the liu hua 11-1-1 a well produced at around 2,240 barrels per day at a depth of 305 metres. the news agency said amoco plans to drill a second well in the area this year, but gave no further details. reuter
0	estimated oil and gas drilling completions in the united states dropped by almost 41 per cent in 1986 from 1985, the american petroleum institute said. api, an industry group, said that of the 42,387 wells completed last year, a total of 19,741 were oil wells, 8,645 were natural gas wells and 14,001 were dry holes. in 1985, a total of 71,539 wells were drilled - 36,834 oil wells, 13,036 gas wells and 21,669 dry holes. reuter
0	a strike by brazil's 40,000 seafarers who want pay rises of up to 180 pct may have cost the state-owned oil company petrobras 20 mln dlrs in lost export orders, the company's commercial director arthur de carvalho was quoted as saying in press reports. more than 170 ships in brazil, and about nine more in foreign ports, have been halted by the strike, which began on february 27. marines began blockading the ships on friday after the strike was ruled illegal, and some strikers are running short of food, national merchants marine union president edson areias said. reuter
0	the suspension of ecuador's crude oil shipments after an earthquake cut an oil pipeline will last at least four months, a senior energy ministry official said. the official said ecuador could resume exports after repairing a 40 km section of the 510 km pipeline, which links jungle oil fields at lago agrio to balao on the pacific coast. it would take about 100 mln u.s. dlrs to repair the pipeline, the official, who did not want to be named, told reuters. ecuador had enough oil to meet domestic demand for about 35 days and would have to import crude to supplement stocks. the earthquake last thursday night registered six on the 12-point international mercalli scale. the damage to the pipeline was a severe economic blow to ecuador, where oil accounts for up to two-thirds of total exports and as much as 60 pct of government revenues. financially pressed ecuador, a member of the organisation of petroleum exporting countries (opec), was recently pumping about 260,000 barrels per day (bpd) of crude, about 50,000 bpd above the output quota assigned by the cartel, another energy ministry spokesman said. last year, it exported an average of 173,500 bpd, according to the central bank. however, ecuador might build an emergency 25 km pipeline, costing 15 to 20 mln dlrs, to hook up with a colombian pipeline, the first official said. he estimated it could take about 60 days to build. ecuador, squeezed by the slide in world oil prices in 1986, had only 138 mln dlrs in net international reserves at the end of january, about equal to one month's imports. it suspended interest payments in january on 5.4 billion dlrs owed to about 400 private foreign banks. the country's total foreign debt is 8.16 billion dlrs, the eighth largest in latin america. in caracas, president jaime lusinchi said venezuela would loan five mln barrels of crude to ecuador over the next three months to make up for losses from damage to the pipeline. ecuador asked for the loan to guarantee domestic supplies and would ship an equivalent volume back to venezuela in repayment in may, lusinchi said. a commission headed by venezuelan investment fund minister hector hurtado and including representatives from the interior and defence ministries and the state oil company petroleos de venezuela will travel to ecuador tuesday to evaluate and co-ordinate an emergency relief program, he said. reuter
1	graan elevator mij said its balance in port of grains, oilseeds and derivatives rose to 136,000 tonnes on march 7 from 31,000 a week earlier, after arrivals of 523,000 tonnes and discharges of 418,000 tonnes last week. the balance comprised 38,000 tonnes of grains and oilseeds and 98,000 tonnes of derivatives. this week's estimated arrivals total 194,000 tonnes, of which 45,000 are grains/oilseeds and 149,000 derivatives. the figures cover around 95 pct of rotterdam traffic in the products concerned. reuter
1	three london markets which trade potato, soymeal and meat futures said they will merge to form a new agricultural futures exchange. legal advisers have been instructed to implement the amalgamation of the london potato futures association, lpfa, the london meat futures exchange, lmfe, and the grain and feed trade association's, gafta, soya bean meal futures association, somfa. no timetable was given. members of the three exchanges have been consulted, agricultural futures exchange secretary bill englebright told reuters, and no objections have been raised to the merger. three markets are involved at present but the new exchange could ultimately combine five markets. discussions are taking place with the baltic international freight futures exchange, biffex, and the gafta london grain futures market is considering the possibility of joining the other markets, market officials said. the biffex board is expected to reach a decision on the merger at its meeting at the end of this month, after members are consulted at a meeting on march 16. the grain futures market also intends to consult its members soon, gafta director general james mackie said. the aim of the amalgamation is to limit regulatory and administrative costs and achieve the recognition required under the 1986 financial services act. this legislation requires a futures market to become a recognised investment exchange, rie, for trading to continue. representatives of all the futures markets on the baltic exchange have been discussing the possibility of a single rie structure since the beginning of the year. the new exchange now planned will apply to the securities and investments board for recognition as an rie "at the appropriate time," the agricultural futures exchange said. "this commitment by the markets will enable progress to be made to develop a stronger and more effective exchange to the benefit of all those involved in the industry," the chairman of the formation committee, pat elmer, said. the merged markets will remain at the baltic exchange. reuter
0	petro-canada, canada's state-owned oil company, said it will drill two delineation wells this summer at the terra nova oil field offshore newfoundland. evaluation of test results and preliminary engineering work should put petro-canada in a position to propose a development plan for the terra nova field in 1988, the company said. depending on time required for regulatory approvals, construction could begin in 1989, with first oil production as early as 1991, petro-canada said. "we have a high degree of confidence that the western portion of the (terra nova) field contains at least 11 mln cubic meters of recoverable oil, or more than 70 mln barrels, and that we could produce it economicly using a floating production system," petro-canada said. the terra-nova field, lying 350 kilometers east of st. john's and 35 kilometers southeast of hibernia field, was discovered by petro-canada in 1984. "we've had encouraging results from the eastern portion of the field, and we hope this summer's drilling will prove up additional reserves there," the company said. petro-canada believes terra nova field is a good commercial prospect and the company wants to move some of those resources towards development so it can start generating a return on investments, petro-canada said. petro-canada, which will act as operator of the two wells, has a 75 pct interest in the western portion of graven block of the terra nova field and a 26 pct interest in the field's east flank block, a company spokesman said later. other field participants include canterra energy ltd, mobil oil canada ltd, gulf canada resources inc, icg resources ltd, trillium exploration corp and general partnership parex. petro-canada estimates reserves in the terra nova field's graven block of between 68 mln and 70 mln barrels of oil, company spokesman bob foulkes said from petro-canada's calgary office. combined reserves for graven block and the field's east flank block are estimated between 70 mln and 130 mln barrels, he added. petro-canada expects to spend about 500 mln canadian dlrs to bring the field to production by about 1991, and the development budget could double if the company builds a production system combining both blocks in the field, he said. petro-canada estimates the terra nova field graven block would produce between 25,000 and 26,000 barrels average daily production, with a production system that would have maximum capacity of 40,000 bpd, company spokesman foulkes said in answer to a query. the company estimates a production system combining both graven and east flank blocks in the terra nova field could produce about 45,000 bpd average daily production, he said. reuter
1	the west german intervention board said it accepted 962,192 tonnes of grain from the start of the current agricultural year to the end of last month, compared with 1.8 mln tonnes during the july/february period in 1985/86. it said it accepted 336,097 tonnes of bread wheat (nil in the year-earlier period), 16,818 (nil) tonnes of high quality wheat, 33,623 (523,625) tonnes of feed wheat, 3,426 (168,682) tonnes of rye, 88,494 (32,766) tonnes of high quality rye, 2,313 (105,005) tonnes of summer barley and 481,421 (972,794) tonnes of winter barley. reuter
1	over 240 mln bushels of government grain have been allocated in redemptions for commodity certificates since the program began april 30, according to the commodity credit corporation. redemptions included 11.4 mln bushels of corn valued at 17.0 mln dlrs, or an average per-bushel price of 1.492 dlrs, since the current grain catalogs were issued december 1 by ccc. wheat redemptions totaled 9.6 mln bushels, valued at 23.7 mln dlrs, since december 1. more
0	ranger oil ltd said it completed on march 2 the previously announced sale of its u.s. oil and gas properties held by subsidiaries ranger oil co and ranger inc to ampol exploration ltd, of australia, for 18.5 mln u.s. dlrs. ranger said that under the deal, it would retain a five pct gross overriding royalty on its stake from blocks east cameron 65 and 82 in the gulf of mexico offshore lousiana. it said the sale did not include u.s. properties acquired from <berkeley exploration and production plc> last december. reuter
0	hamilton oil corp said reserves at the end of 1986 were 59.8 mln barrels of oil and 905.5 billion cubic feet of natural gas, or 211 mln barrels equivalent, up 10 mln equivalent barrels from a year before. reuter
0	shell canada, a wholly owned subsidiary of the royal dutch/shell group <rd> said that it raised crude oil prices by about 47 canadian cts a barrel today. the increase riased its posted price for light sweet crude oil to 21.95 dlrs a barrel from its march one level. light sour crudes were raised to 19.95 dlrs a barrel, the company said. reuter
1	the staff of the commodity futures trading commission, cftc, recommended that the regulatory agency approve the minneapolis grain exchange's application to trade high fructose corn syrup-55, hfcs-55, futures contracts. the commission is expected to approve the application at a meeting tomorrow. the proposed contract would provide for the delivery of 48,000 lbs, plus or minus two pct, of bulk hfcs-55, a liquid food and beverage sweetener produced through processed corn starch by corn refiners. under proposed rules, a shipping certificate has a limited life, as it expires 30 days following the last day of trading of the expiring contract month. a premium charge of 14.40 dlrs per contract per day would be assessed under the proposal. reuter
0	white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said president reagan's record in opposing tax hikes is "long and strong" and not about to change. "we're opposed to tax increases.... we will fight tax increases.... we will deal with it politically in every forum possible," said fitzwater when questioned about whether there was any change in the administration's position. fitzwater said reagan's strong feelings against a tax hike included opposition to an oil import fee. "the president's position is that he is opposed to it," he said. reuter
1	italy has shown interest in british new crop wheat recently but the actual volume booked so far by italian buyers has not been large, traders said. they put purchases at around 50,000 tonnes for sept/dec shipments but said some of the business was transacted at the start of the year. italian interior home markets have been active in recent weeks and traders said around 200,000 tonnes have traded between dealers and home consumers. some of this has been covered in the market here and more possibly will be, traders said. reuter
0	petro-canada, the state-owned oil company, said it raised the contract price it will pay for crude oil 64 canadian cts a barrel, effective march six. petro-canada's posted price for the benchmark light sweet grade, edmonton/swann hills at 40 api gravity, now stands at 21.95 canadian dlrs/bbl. their light sour grade is posted at 19.88 canadian dlrs/bbl. earlier today, shell canada <shc> said it raised its crude postings about 47 canadian cts/bbl, bringing edmonton light sweet to 21.95 canadian dlrs/bbl, and the light sour crude to 19.95 canadian dlrs/bbl. imperial oil <imo.a>, a 70 pct owned subsidiary of exxon corp, said that effective march five it also raised its light sweet crude posting to 21.95 canadian dlrs/bbl. reuter
1	the agriculture department will have to release an estimated 1.6 billion dlrs worth of in-kind certificates, or certs, to corn farmers this fall if usda decides to maintain an equal split of total 1986 feedgrain deficiency payments in cash and certs, usda officials said. final 1986 crop deficiency payments will be available to feed grain producers in october. wheat deficiency payments for the 1986 crop, now complete, were made in a 50/50 cash-certificate split, and usda officials have indicated they want to do the same for feedgrains. over 3.2 billion dlrs of an estimated 6.0 billion in corn deficiency payments have already been announced, with 1.42 billion dlrs (43 pct) set in certificates. the final payment must be 1.6 billion dlrs in certs (57 pct) for a 50/50 split. however, the release this month of almost 600 mln dlrs of deficiency payments was equally divided in cash and certs, doing nothing to bring up the percentage of certs. some usda analysts said the payments reflected hesitation from the office of managament and budget to allow another huge release of certs onto the market. bills are pending in congress to move up the final feedgrain deficiency payment to "as soon as five months after harvest as possible," rather than the current year lag time. neither rep. edward madigan (r-ill.) nor sen. bob dole (r-kans.), sponsors of the bills, have brought the legislation forward. aides said timing will depend on budget discussions. reuter
1	the u.s. agriculture department forecast the soviet 1986/87 wheat crop at 92.30 mln tonnes, vs 92.30 mln tonnes last month. it put the 1985/86 crop at 78.10 mln tonnes, vs 78.10 mln tonnes last month. soviet 1986/87 coarse grain production is estimated at 103.30 mln tonnes, vs 103.30 mln tonnes last month. production in 1985/86 is projected at 100.00 mln tonnes, vs 99.99 mln tonnes last month. ussr wheat imports are forecast at 15.00 mln tonnes in 1986/87, vs 14.00 mln tonnes last month. imports in 1985/86 are put at 15.70 mln tonnes, vs 15.70 mln tonnes last month. usda estimated soviet 1986/87 coarse grain imports at 10.00 mln tonnes, vs 8.00 mln tonnes last month, and 1985/86 imports at 13.70 mln tonnes, vs 13.70 mln tonnes last month.
1	the commodity credit corporation, ccc, has authorized 25.0 mln dlrs in credit guarantees to north yemen to cover purchases of u.s. wheat under the intermediate export credit guarantee program (gsm-103), the u.s. agriculture department said. under the program credit terms extended must be in excess of three yeras, but not more than seven years. all sales under the line must be registered and exports completed by september 30, 1987, the department said. reuter
1	the commodity credit corporation, ccc, has accepted one bonus offer from an exporter on the sale of 4,400 tonnes of barley malt to nigeria, the u.s. agriculture department said. the department said the bonus awarded was 100.00 dlrs per tonne and was made to rahr malting co and will be paid in the form of commodities from the inventory stocks of the ccc. the barley malt is scheduled for shipment during april, 1987. an additional 76,300 tonnes of barley malt are still available to nigeria under the export enhancement program initiative announced december 10, 1986, it said. reuter
1	the u.s. agriculture department increased its estimate of soviet 1986/87 grain imports to 26 mln tonnes from last month's projection of 23 mln tonnes. in its monthly ussr grain situation and outlook, usda said the increase reflected the return of the soviet union to the u.s. corn market and continued purchases of both wheat and coarse grain from other major suppliers. ussr wheat imports were projected at 15 mln tonnes, up one mln from last month's estimate and 700,000 tonnes below the preliminary 1985/86 figure. soviet grain for feed use was estimated at a record 129 mln tonnes. record or near-record livestock inventories, along with a dry fall which likely reduced late season pasturage, and a cold winter have increased feed demand, usda said. ussr meat and egg production in january rose only slightly from the previous january's level, while milk production increased by nearly six pct. unusually cold weather in january and smaller increases in roughage supplies during 1986 than in 1985 kept livestock production from expanding as much as it did a year earlier, usda said. reuter
0	up to 300 people were feared dead and more than 15,000 people left homeless by thursday's earthquake, which will cost ecuador close to 800 mln dlrs in lost petroleum revenues, authorities said. they estimated the cost of repairing a damaged oil pipeline at 150 mln dlrs. "the magnitude of the damages caused by the earthquake is gigantic," president leon febres cordero said after inspecting the damages in napo, the hardest-hit jungle province, 100 miles from here. the quake damaged 40 km of an oil pipeline, forcing this opec nation to suspend crude exports for four months, president febres cordero said in a statement issued today by the presidential press office. the country would lose an estimated 800 mln dlrs in crude exports until the pipeline was repaired, the president said. it would cost 150 mln dlrs to repair the pipelline which carries oil from jungle oil fields over the andes to balao, a pacific ocean port. crude traditionally accounts for up to two-thirds of ecuador's exports. the quake triggered landslides, swelling the aguarico river which burst it banks carrying away homes and huts in napo province, health minister jorge brancho told reuters. "we fear that up to 300 people died in napo though there is no way of now knowing the exact figure because many people have disappeared," he said. other estimates ranged as high as 500 dead. so far 20 corpses have been recovered, bracho said. information minister marco lara told reporters: "the number of dead and injured is not known ... because we do not know how many people lived in the homes hit by the landslides." bracho said at least 15,000 were left homeless in the cayambe district. reuter
1	the u.s. agriculture department estimated canada's 1986/87 wheat crop at 31.85 mln tonnes, vs 31.85 mln tonnes last month. it estimated 1985/86 output at 24.25 mln tonnes, vs 24.25 mln last month. canadian 1986/87 coarse grain production is projected at 27.62 mln tonnes, vs 27.62 mln tonnes last month. production in 1985/86 is estimated at 24.95 mln tonnes, vs 24.95 mln last month. canadian wheat exports in 1986/87 are forecast at 19.00 mln tonnes, vs 18.00 mln tonnes last month. exports in 1985/86 are estimated at 17.71 mln tonnes, vs 17.72 mln last month. reuter
1	the u.s. agriculture department forecast australia's 1986/87 wheat crop at 17.30 mln tonnes, vs 17.50 mln tonnes last month. it estimated 1985/86 output at 16.13 mln tonnes, vs 16.13 mln last month. australian wheat exports in 1986/87 are forecast at 14.50 mln tonnes, vs 15.00 mln tonnes last month, while exports in 1985/86 are estimated at 15.96 mln tonnes, vs 15.96 mln last month. reuter
1	french maize producers will ask the ec commission to grant permanent maize export rebates following the recent ec/u.s. accord guaranteeing the u.s. an annual export quota of two mln tonnes of maize for spain over four years, the french maize producers association, agpm, said. the commission has already decided to accord rebates for the export of 500,000 tonnes of french maize, of which rebates for around 100,000 tonnes have been granted. the request will be made when export certificates have been granted for all the 500,000 tonnes, the agpm said. the association said that the request would cover exports to all destinations, adding that the soviet union, which has important maize needs, is currently excluded from the list of destination countries for the 500,000 tonnes of french maize. the u.s. agriculture department has forecast soviet maize imports for the 1986/87 campaign at 4.90 mln tonnes against 10.40 mln in 1985/86. reuter
0	marathon petroleum company, a subsidiary of usx corp <x>, said it raised the contract price it pays for three grades of crude oil, effective march 6. illinois sweet and indiana sweet are both being raised 50 cts a barrel to 16.75 dlrs/bbl, and the southern michigan grade is being raised 25 cts/bbl, also to 16.75 dlrs a bbl. the west texas intermediate grade was unchanged. reuter
1	the agricultural stabilization and conservation service (ascs) bought 25.7 mln pounds of wheat flour at a cost of 2.8 mln dlrs for domestic shipment april 1-15 and april 16-30, an ascs spokesman said. ascs also bought 11.1 mln pounds of bakers flour for 1.1 mln dlrs, 1.9 mln pounds of pasta for 408,258 dlrs, 1.4 mln pounds of processed cereal products for 304,043 dlrs, 4.8 mln pounds of corn products for 474,944 dlrs, and 16.3 mln pounds of milled rice for 2.0 mln dlrs. reuter
0	american petroleum institute president charles dibona said no options should be rejected to combat growing u.s. dependence on foreign oil. "no action should be ruled out--import fees or quotas, floor prices, tax incentives or other alternatives--while a national dialogue on the issue continues," dibona said at a paper institute conference in new york today. dibona said there is no unanimity within the industry on how to stimulate energy production but there is consensus on removing several government policies that hinder investments in new prospects. dibona said the windfall profit tax should be abolished immediately and current proposals for increased environmental regulations on acid rain and waste disposal should be not adopted. he also suggested that the arctic national wildlife refuge in alaska should be opened up for leasing to oil companies, dibona said. "this is a battle the industry cannot afford to lose if the nation is to continue to benefit from alaskan oil," dibona said. since 1986 u.s. oil production has fallen while consumption rose and that has raised dependence on imported oil, particularly from opec, dibona said. reuter
1	there were three grain ships loading and two ships were waiting to load at portland, according to the portland merchants exchange. reuter
0	conoco inc, a subsidiary of dupont corp, said it was increasing its contract prices for crude oil between 10 cts and one dlr a barrel, effective today. conoco said the increase brings its price for the u.s. benchmark crude west texas intermediate to 17.50 dlrs a barrel, up one dlr. south louisiana sweet, also up one dlr, is now 17.85 dlrs. west texas sour was up 10 cts to 16.60 dlrs a barrel. conoco was the last company to raise prices following a series of increases initiated last week by sun co <sun>, which reversed the posted price cuts made at the end of february. reuter
1	chicago board of trade (cbt) agricultural and financial futures markets could be in for a period of major upheaval later this year if the exchange goes ahead with planned renovation. a cbt spokesman told reuters the exchange was looking at a number of options to identify the most cost effective and efficient way to proceed, including one which would involve moving the entire grains floor out of the building and into the nearby midamerica commodity exchange. "one of (cbt chairman) karsten mahlmann's agenda items has been to proceed with renovation in the financial futures room," the spokesman said. another cbt official, executive vice president george sladoje, said the issue would be discussed this friday at a special meeting on the exchange floor. a number of presentations have been made with regard to renovating the financial futures room, sladoje said. "we've looked at five or six different alternatives, involving such things as flip-flopping the trading rooms," he added. it is conceivable that under a couple of these plans, we might use the midamerica exchange temporarily for some cbt markets, sladoje said. "if we move out of one floor entirely, then the construction period will be about a year," he said, adding that the issue was likely to go to a membership vote first and then be on the drawing board for eight months to a year. the cbt spokesman stressed that discussions were very preliminary at this stage and nothing was likely to begin until this summer at the earliest. in order to renovate the crowded financial futures pits, exchange officials have discussed providing them a temporary home next door in the present grains-dominated area. this could involve moving cbt markets in u.s. treasury bond futures, treasury notes, muni-bonds, and options on t-bonds and t-notes through an adjoining corridor, while utilizing the midamerica floor for such cbt futures contracts as corn, wheat, soybeans, soybean products and agricultural options. any such moves could meet with opposition among some cbt members. one senior floor trader said the financial futures room badly needs renovating. "there is talk the grains floor will shift to the midam and the financials will move to the grains area," he said. the cbt spokesman said another option being discussed was to renovate the financial floor in quadrants, one quarter at a time. "the first step, after deciding the most effective way to proceed, would be to get architectural and engineering drawings," he said. he added that it was difficult at present to determine an exact time frame for any possible moves. "this is a major undertaking and a process that would spread out over next year," he said. floor traders at the midamerica commodity exchange, which merged with the cbt about a year ago, said they were preparing to vacate their floor at the end of this month. space has recently been cleared for them at the cbt by moving its major market index pit into the area once reserved for lightly-traded cbt gold and silver futures, which now share their trading area. the midam specializes in mini-contracts in grains, livestock, metals, financials and foreign currencies as well as some options contracts. "rumor has it that the cbt grains are coming over here because the bonds are too crowded," one midam trader said. another source at the midam said this change could take place by july or august. reuter
1	grain analysts said the increase of three mln tonnes in 1986/87 soviet grain imports is unlikely to affect the market tuesday. they said the market already has discounted higher soviet imports, partly on news last month that the soviet union bought one mln tonnes of u.s. corn, and on rumors that the reagan administration is pushing for authority to sell the soviets u.s. wheat under the export enhancement program. in its supply-demand report, the usda raised its estimate for 1986/87 soviet grain imports to 26 mln tonnes from 23 mln. "that was business already done, for all practical purposes," said drexel burnham analyst dale gustafson, reflecting similar statements made by other analysts. reuter
1	the soviet union will likely honor its commitment with the united states to buy a minimum of four mln tonnes of corn this year, an agriculture department official said. "they have always honoured the agreement, and there's no reason now to think they won't this year," he told reuters. "they have an aggressive buying campaign from the european community, from canada, from the u.s. they're active buyers from all sources at this point," the official said in explaining why the department raised its soviet grain imports estimate today by three mln tonnes to 26 mln tonnes. this is a dramatic shift from just a few months ago when analysts were saying the ussr might not buy any u.s. corn for the first time in 15 years. a drawdown of corn supplies in china and argentina, concern over soviet winter crops, and increasing competition for u.s. corn were all cited as possible factors in creating moscow's recent interest. lower corn production prospects in some major supplying countries have stirred activity from big buyers such as japan, and the soviets are also closely watching the situation, the official said. "the soviets will try to out-capitalize the capitalists" and buy corn before prices get too high, the official said. "as soon as they need corn, they'll buy it," he added. usda has confirmed one mln tonnes of corn sold to the soviet union, but both u.s. and soviet analysts have said the purchases stand at 1.5 mln tonnes. the usda official would not speculate on when the soviets would enter the u.s. market again. "there has definitely been an evolving mind set -- from the situation of slow grain buying a couple months ago to one of frenetic buying now," the official said. however, the situation in wheat is "a different story," he said. greater world supplies of wheat, heavier soviet purchase commitments and less competitive u.s. wheat prices make soviet purchases of u.s. wheat less likely, he said. speculation has continued for several days that the u.s. is considering making an export bonus wheat subsidy offer to the soviets, but u.s. officials have provided no confirmation. reuter
0	t. boone pickens, the texas oilman and financier, said he believes the heady days the oil service industry had in the early 1980s, when over 4,500 oil rigs were once reported operating, will not return in his lifetime. pickens told reuters he expects the rig count to drop to below 600 before recovering. he added that oil prices will eventually rise to 35 dlrs, then to 50 dlrs after 1990. currently, some 700 oil rigs are operating in the u.s., down sharply after oil prices slipped from 30 dlrs in late 1985 to around 10 dlrs in 1986. prices are now around 18 dlrs. the highest number of working rigs was 4,500 in december 1981. "the rigs won't go back to work until the price of oil gets above 30 dlrs," he said, adding that while he expects to see 50 dlr a barrel oil, he does not expect to see 2,000 rigs operating in his lifetime. pickens is 58. pickens, who is currently touring the country promoting his autobiography "boone," said he does not believe the u.s. should impose an oil import fee in order to stimulate the domestic oil industry. reuter
1	the sichuan government has ordered that any work or meeting which interferes with the fight against drought must be cancelled or postponed to save time, energy and manpower, the people's daily domestic edition said. sichuan is one of six provinces threatened by drought. wen wei po, a hong kong daily, said the drought, the worst for more than 20 years, is affecting nearly two mln hectares in 100 counties in sichuan, the country's biggest agricultural producer. sichuan has experienced temperatures three degrees centigrade higher than normal and rainfall up to 70 pct less than normal since early february, affecting wheat, oil-bearing crops, rice planting and dryland cash crops, it said. the paper said 43,000 hectares in meixian county in guangdong are seriously short of water. the people's daily said henan, shaanxi, gansu and hebei are also suffering from drought. henan's grain output fell by 2.5 mln tonnes last year from the 1985 level because of drought which has been affecting the province since may. reuter
0	iranian oil minister gholamreza aqazadeh is in the united arab emirates (uae) to discuss oil prices and the general market situation, iranian officials accompanying him said. he will meet uae president sheikh zaid bin sultan al-nahayan and oil minister mana said al-oteiba. aqazadeh arrived last night after a brief stopover in riyadh, where he met saudi arabia's oil minister hisham nazir. the official saudi press agency quoted him as saying his talks at riyadh with nazir had been constructive and good. aqazadeh said organisation of petroleum exporting countries (opec) members were agreed on holding production stable and he reiterated the importance of maintaining oil prices. opec members agreed in december to limit production to 15.8 mln barrels per day for the first half of this year and on a benchmark price of 18 dlrs a barrel from february 1. aqazadeh also visted opec members gabon, algeria and libya. the iranian news agency, irna, quoted him as saying before leaving tripoli that opec should do everything possible to make oil prices permanently stable. reuter
0	king fahd said today saudi arabia wants oil price stability and he called on non-opec producers to avoid harmful competition with the 13 nation group. his plea, in an interview with reuters and the television news agency visnews, came ahead of a state visit he will make to britain later this month. king fahd was asked whether saudi arabia would be prepared to reduce its oil output below its opec quota of 4.133 mln barrels per day (bpd) to defend the 18 dlr benchmark price agreed to by opec last december. the king replied: "saudi arabia doesn't decide prices by itself but certainly desires price stability." non-opec countries "must help us in a framework of common interest so that there is no type of competition which could prove harmful to everyone," he said. asked if he saw the 18 dlr per barrel benchmark as a first step towards higher world oil prices, king fahd said it was not for saudi arabia but for all opec countries to determine such issues. iran and algeria have already called for a higher benchmark. in recent weeks the 18 dlr level has come under pressure, due partly to quota violations by some opec members. king fahd said saudi arabia, the world's largest oil exporter, was adhering to decisions made at opec's december conference which set a 15.8 mln bpd output ceiling for the first half of 1987. a major non-opec producer, britain has so far resisted the group's pleas to curb its north sea oil output. the king also urged the world community to help the palestinians return to their homeland and called for a peaceful end to the iran-iraq war. the 6-1/2-year-old war could not be resolved on the battlefield, he said. reuter
0	foreign oil companies will spend less on exploration in indonesia this year than last, budgeting 2.7 billion dlrs for calendar 1987 against 1986 spending of 2.8 billion dlrs, the state oil company pertamina said. actual spending last year fell short of the budgeted figure of 3.2 billion dlrs, as oil companies slashed expenditure because of the crash in world oil prices. jumardi jukardi, head of pertamina's coordinating board for foreign contractors, said foreign companies will drill 110 exploration wells and 431 development wells this year, against 108 and 330 last year. reuter
0	negotiations between indonesia's state oil company pertamina and foreign oil contractors on extension of the standard 30-year production sharing contract will be concluded by the end of this month, a pertamina official said. jumardi jukardi, head of pertamina's foreign contractors coordinating board, gave no details about the outcome of the talks. but pertamina president abdul rachman ramly has said priority will be given to extending contracts for companies whose exploration and production contracts expire within the next seven to 10 years. jukardi, speaking to indonesian reporters, said the negotiations would determine whether the 85-15 production sharing split in favour of pertamina would be adhered to or altered in some cases as oil companies are asking for. hardjoko seputro, spokesman for the mines and energy ministry, has said that president suharto has agreed in principle to extension of the standard 30-year production sharing contract to reflect better current depressed conditions on the international oil market. reuter
0	ecuador needs 120 mln dlrs to repair the damage to its oil export pipeline caused by last week"s earthquake, which will stop crude exports for five months, energy and mines minister javier espinosa teran said. espinosa said yesterday the pipeline, which carries crude from jungle fields to the pacific ocean coast of balao, would be repaired with the help of texaco inc <tx.n> and a mexican and an argentine firm. president leon febres cordero said two days ago that ecuador, an opec member, would have to suspend crude exports for four months due to the quake. oil traditionally accounts for up to two-thirds of ecuador's total exports and as much as 60 pct of government revenues. deputy energy minister fernando santos alvite said ecuador would have to import six to seven mln barrels of crude oil to meet its needs until the line was repaired. the ecuadorean minister at the presidency, patricio quevedo, told reporters that venezuela will lend ecuador five mln barrels of crude, which would repaid in kind after a 180-day period. he added the caracas-based andean development corp had granted a loan of 11.7 mln dlrs towards repairing the pipeline, 50 km of which had been damaged in the quake. in quito, foreign minister rafael garcia velasco yesterday summoned ambassadors from about 40 countries to whom he issued appeal for emergency aid for the country. only three countries, the u.s., colombia and venezuela, had offered assistance. reuter
0	the oil services industry is on the verge of a recovery because of rising crude prices, oil industry analysts said. the analysts, who issued buy recommendations on some stocks, said the recovery in oil services should begin in the second half of 1987, after drilling activity bottoms out in the first half, and continue into the next decade. "people, however, cannot afford to wait for drilling to go up to start buying," said sandi haber sweeney, senior research analyst at sanford c. bernstein and co inc. among the recommended buys are schlumberger ltd <slb>, halliburton co <hal>, dresser industries <di>, baker international <bko>, and mcdermott international inc <mdr>, which may be the target of a takeover by harold simmons, a dallas-based investor. analysts said although major oil companies are increasing exploration and development overseas, they expect the pickup in oil services will begin in the u.s. "activity in the u.s. is so depressed it should move up faster," said vishnu sharp of goldman sachs. the number of active oil drilling rigs in the u.s. was 766 last week compared with 1,212 rigs one year ago, huges tool co <ht> figures show. the average number of working rigs in the u.s. for 1987 is projected at 978 versus 964 in 1986, according to ike kerridge, vice president of stockholder relations at hughes tool. "the first significant pickup in drilling activity will occur in the second half of 1988," kerridge said. overseas drilling activity is expected to follow a similar pattern, kerridge said. "halliburton is the best value," said jeffrey freedman, vice president at smith barney, harris and upham inc, adding the company controls the greatest amount of liquidity of common stock market value, is diversifed in non-oil field businesess, and has the lowest multiple of stock price to operating cash flow including debt. schlumberger is freedman's second favorite oil service stock. "schlumberger is expected to continue to be the dominant technical leader in the industry," freedman said. "schlumberger's management shift, asset restructuring, including a pending merger of fairchild semiconductor, and its considerable cash horde sets the stage for the company to maximize its significant industry advantage and capitalize on the project upturn in exploration and development activity," according to a report by george gaspar, first vice president at robert w. baird and co inc. gaspar estimates earnings per share for schlumberger at 25 cts for 1987 and one to 1.75 dlrs in 1988 compared with 20 cts in 1986 excluding a fourth quarter special charge of 1.87 billion dlrs. bernstein's sandi sweeney is recommending a group of oil service companies and said choosing among them is difficult. her favorite is baker international, which is involved in a possible merger with hughes tool co. dresser industries will also benefit from the recovery but possibly not as much as other companies because it is not a pure service company, sweeney said. dresser is expected to improve profitability owing to cost reductions and streamlined operations, including the sale and leaseback of its headquarters, said swarup. reuter
0	opec has reaffirmed its commitment to fixed crude oil prices of around 18 dlrs a barrel and an overall output ceiling of 15.8 mln barrels per day (bpd) to defend prices, its president rilwanu lukman said. he told a news conference here "after due consultation with my colleagues in opec, i hereby wish to emphasize that nigeria and all member countries of opec remain determined to uphold the december agreement by adhering strictly to their various quotas and official selling prices." lukman added no extraordinary opec conference was planned. "we are in a position to re-confirm that, despite misleading news in foreign media to the contrary, ... opec member countries as a whole produced below their agreed quota in the month of february," lukman, who is nigerian oil minister, said. lukman put the overall opec output shortfall in february at 900,000 bpd and said this was as a result of their firm determination to defend official selling prices of 18 dlrs agreed upon last december in geneva. the december agreement set an overall output ceiling for opec of 15.8 mln bpd for first half 1987 and restored fixed prices as from february 1 around a reference point of 18 dlrs. oil prices rallied immediately after the geneva accord but fell again last month on reports that opec was producing more than the agreed level. "the idea was to suggest that opec's agreement would not hold and this caused some customers to hold back purchases of opec oil and resort to destocking to meet their needs," lukman said. he said the 900,000 bpd shortfall last february was based on the verified figure for 10 out of opec's 13 members, adding that nigeria alone had a shortfall in production of 100,000 bpd. iraq disassociated itself from the december agreement, while the production figures of ecuador and the united arab emirates needed to be verified, lukman said. "if that is the price we have to pay to make the agreement succeed, we are ready ... opec is not changing its price level of 18 dlrs," the group's president said. he said the opec price differentials committee meeting formerly postponed to april had been put off indefinitely. "furthermore, no extraordinary meeting of the conference is at the moment contemplated since most agreements reached in december are being adhered to," he said. asked if the committee did not need to meet soon to narrow the gaps in the prices of the various opec crudes -- fixed in relation to the 18 dlr benchmark -- lukman replied "we consider the defence of our prices much more crucial than differentials." lukman said opec was aware that consumers had heavily drawn on stocks of both crude oil and refined products to levels well below this time last year and soon they would return to the market in search of crude. "we don't see that there is going to be any difficulty in maintaining the 18 dlr price throughout the rest of the year," lukman said. the opec president praised non-opec oil producers, which he said had contributed to the group's efforts to stabilise prices, but he criticised britain for maintaining its long-held view not to do anything to help the market. "we are quite confident, however, that in the long-term with two-thirds of the world's reserves in opec hands, the future is ours. we will use that advantage responsibly," he said. lukman described the disruption in ecuador's output following an earthquake as tragic, but refused to say if the south american country would be allowed a higher output quota when it recovered from the disaster. reuter
0	triton energy corp said its 70 pct owned <canadian worldwide energy ltd> affiliate's lasmo et al tableland 4-36-2-10w2 well in saskatchewan flowed 567 barrels of 37 degree gravity oil through a 17/64 inch choke from depths of 8,531 to 8,548 feet and 636 barrels of oil per day through a 20/64 inch choke from depths of 8,500 to 8,507 feet. triton said because of the well's status as a deep exploratory well, production qualifies for a five-year royalty holiday under the saskatchewan drilling incentive products. it said the well's initial production is expected to be restricted to an allowable level of about 300 barrels a day, although it is capable of sustaining much higher rates. the company said london and scottish marine oil plc owns a 50 pct interest in the well and its spacing unit, canadian worldwide 25 pct, <saskatchewan oil and gas corp> 10 pct, <interprovincial pipeline ltd's> home oil co ltd 7.5 pct and scurry-rainbow oil ltd <srb> 7.5 pct. triton said royal dutch/shell group's <rd> <sc> shell canada ltd <shc> affiliate retains a convertible overriding interest in the well. reuter
0	ecuador's deputy energy minister fernando santos alvite arrived here last night for talks on further venezuelan assistance to his country's oil industry following last week's earthquake, officials said. ecuador was obliged to suspend crude oil exports for an expected five months as a result of damage to 25 miles of pipeline linking its jungle oil fields with the pacific port of balao. oil normally accounts for 60 pct of its exports. fellow opec member venezuela has already agreed to lend ecuador five mln barrels of crude, to be repaid in kind after 180 days, to help meet its domestic consumption needs. the officials could neither confirm nor deny reports that venezuela will temporarily produce ecuador's entire opec quota, set at 210,000 barrels per day for first half 1987. "all options are open at this moment in the context of cooperation on oil production," a venezuelan energy and mines ministry source said. discussions are also under way to arrive at a formula to compensate ecuador for the loss in oil export revenue while the pipeline is repaired, officials said. santos alvite last night met venezuelan energy and mines minister arturo hernandez grisanti and will today hold talks at technical level, officials said. industry sources said that among the options are for venezuela to produce ecuador's entire quota, or for venezuela and non-opec mexico to share it and for the latter to supply ecuador's far eastern clients. but the ministry source said that no decision has yet been reached on the matter, and that an announcement would be made in due course. santos alvite said earlier in quito that ecuador would have to import six to seven mln barrels of crude oil to meet its needs until the line was repaired. ecuador energy and mines minister javier espinosa teran said last night his country needs 120 mln dlrs to repair the damage to the export pipeline caused by the earthquake. reuter
0	ecuador's deputy energy minister fernando santos alvite arrived here last night for talks on further venezuelan assistance to his country's oil industry following last week's earthquake, officials said. ecuador was obliged to suspend crude oil exports for an expected five months as a result of damage to 25 miles of pipeline linking its jungle oil fields with the pacific port of balao. oil normally accounts for 60 pct of its exports. fellow opec member venezuela has already agreed to lend ecuador five mln barrels of crude, to be repaid in kind after 180 days, to help meet its domestic consumption needs. reuter
1	private exporters said china bought a total of 550,000 tonnes of u.s. wheat under the export enhancement program, with final confirmation by the u.s. department of agriculture of the subsidies still awaited. the purchase consisted of a total of 340,000 tonnes of hard red winter wheat for various may/aug shipments, with 210,000 tonnes of soft red winter for aug/sept, the exporters said. reuter
0	lured by the weakening dollar and the conviction that oil prices are poised for a rebound, european energy companies are buying up cheap u.s. oil and gas reserves to replenish their supplies, oil industry analysts said. they said owning oil reserves in a politically stable united states is good insurance against future shortages. however, the quick pace of foreign investment has heated up competition among european firms, well-heeled u.s. institutional investors and major oil companies to snare choice domestic oil properties. strevig and associates, a houston firm that tracks oil and gas reserve sales, said growing interest among foreign buyers had helped push reserve prices in recent months higher. all buyers of u.s. reserves paid a median price of 6.45 dlrs a barrel of oil during the fourth quarter of 1986 for acquisitions, up from 5.33 dlrs in the third quarter and five dlrs in the second quarter, according to the firm's research. "foreign investors have been here nibbling a long time, but we're seeing new names and smaller companies coming in," said arthur smith, an oil property appraisal specialist and president of john s. herold inc in greenwich, conn. "europeans, especially, do not have much indigenous oil and gas and realize the tide will eventually turn in favor of the organization of petroleum exporting countries," he added. smith and other oil industry analyst and economists believe the trend in foreign investments will continue in 1987 because of the fall in value of the u.s. dollar, the perception that oil prices have hit bottom and the fact that it is cheaper to buy new reserves than to explore for them. plenty of properties are available on the market, thanks to the need of many companies to raise cash for debt payments and general restructuring throughout the oilpatch. in two of the biggest transactions of recent months, french-owned minatome corp., a unit of <total compagnie francaise des petroles>, spent more than 230 mln dlrs to separately acquire oil assets of texas international <teicc> and lear petroleum partners <lpp>. a spokesman for minatome said the company is searching for additional acquisitions. a partnership of two belgian-owned firms, <petrofina s.a.> and <cometra oil s.a.> paid 150 mln dlrs late last year to buy virtually all the exploration assets of the williams cos <wmb>, the oklahoma pipeline firm. but japanese investors prefer entering into joint ventures with experienced u.s. companies to explore for new oil. japan's <nippon oil> is a partner of texaco inc's <tx> texaco usa in a 100 mln dlrs u.s. drilling program, and has joined with dupont's <dd> conoco inc in a similar 135 dlrs mln deal. most buyers said the pay-back period of a property, its geographic location and the lifting cost of the crude oil are more important factors in evaluating potential acquisitions than relying on a simple price-per-barrel formula. rich hodges, a houston-based land manager representing international oil and gas corp, a partnership of <preussag corp> and <c. deilmann inc> of west germany, said the firm had earmarked at least 50 mln dlrs to spend on oil reserves in texas, oklahoma or louisiana in the coming months. but he called that a small amount compared to the amount other investors have for acquisitions. painewebber's geodyne energy income fund, for example, has said it plans to spend up to 300 mln dlrs on oil and gas properties. "the competition is stiff, not only from other foreign investors but from the brokerage houses and u.s. oil companies," he said. "our company is shopping around because we feel it's substantially less risky than pure exploration. if you're going to take the risk inherent in exploration, you need prices higher than the current market," he added. in addition to the foreign investors and u.s. brokerage houses, analysts said many of the major oil companies were also competing for prime properties. houston-based shell oil co, a unit of royal dutch/shell group <rd>, has been one of the most active companies in buying and selling reserves, smith said. since 1982, shell has acquired two billion dlrs in new reserves, including 470 mln barrels of oil equivalent at a net cost of 2.80 dlrs a barrel, he said. "buying reserves is a good strategy for most of these companies," smith said. "domestic production has dropped by one mln barrels a day because of cutbacks in drilling and it may drop by another one mln barrels a day in 1988." reuter
0	a two-year project to search for oil and gas in jordan was agreed in amman by jordan's natural resources authority (nra) and the canadian company, petrocanada international assistance corporation (pciac). the 19.1 mln dlr assistance agreement was signed by jordan's minister of energy hisham al-khatib and pciac chairman peter m. towe. pciac is a canadian government corporation providing assistance to countries like jordan to reduce their dependence on oil imports, towe said. reuter
1	u.s. senate republican leader robert dole said congress should consider legislation to apply the so-called 0/92 option to producers of major commodities. dole told the national corn growers association that he thought the proposal, supported by the reagan administration, "should be seriously considered" because a refusal to do so could "play into the hands of those who want mandatory controls" placed on production. however, dole did not say whether he would support the 0/92 option, which would offer producers at least 92 pct of their income support payments regardless of how much they planted. the senate republican leader said the 0/92 option posed two problems. first, it is viewed, he said, by some as welfare. in addition, debate on the proposal could open up the whole farm bill, dole said. dole also repeated his call for an across-the-board export enhancement program, saying a subsidy offer to the soviet union could help improve u.s. relations with that country. dole said that the united states has made the decision to trade with moscow and that it's important to offer competitive prices. the senator predicted congress would have to decide this year whether to require an expansion of the export subsidy program, which currently targets benefits to recapture markets lost to other suppliers which subsidize. dole, who last year pledged to offer legislation to require a marketing loan for major crops but never did so, again called for the marketing loan for wheat and feedgrains. the reagan administration's proposed farm policy changes "are not going anywhere" this year, dole said, singling out the proposal to cut target prices 10 pct per year. asked by reporters after his speech whether he sensed a shift in the state department towards supporting an export enhancement initiative for the soviet union, dole said he didn't see any change. dole also said it would be a very close call in the senate whether to open up the farm bill to general debate this year. dole said he was encouraged by the selection of republican david karnes to replace the late sen. edward zorinsky (d-neb.) reuter
0	with troops in place in brazil's ports and oil installations, the government of prersident jose sarney today sought to end a wave of labour unrest by a show of force. yesterday the government sent thousands of troops supported in some instances by tanks to occupy nine oil refineries and six areas of oil production. the state-oil company petrobras requested the intervention because of a threatened strike by 55,000 oil industry employees. the government had already dispatched more than 1,000 marines to occupy the country's main ports after a national seamen's strike was ruled illegal last friday. the strike by 40,000 seamen, now in its 13th day, represents a stern challenge to the government. the stoppage has delayed exports at a time when brazil desperately needs foreign exchange. it was a deterioration in the country's trade balance which precipitated brazil's current debt crisis and the decision on february 20 to suspend interest payments on 68 billion dlrs of commercial debt. there was no sign today of an early end to the seamen's strike, which has badly hit the port of santos -- the most important in south america -- and the country's other main ports. small groups of marines armed with submachineguns stand on the quays near the strike-bound ships, but the military presence here is generally discreet. a total of 800 marines are inside the docks but most are out of sight. yesterday marines and police occupied one ship, the docemarte, seamen's leaders said. after explaining to the captain that the strikers faced up to one year in jail because the strike was illegal, the men returned to work. one of the strike leaders, elmano barbosa, said "it is a psychological war. they are using force and we are using peaceful methods." port sources said only two brazilian ships in santos, the docemarte and the henrique leal, were working. at the seamen's national strike headquarters in rio de janeiro, spokesmen say a total of about 190 ships are strike-bound in brazil and in foreign ports. contradicting earlier reports from strike headquarters in rio de janeiro, seamen in santos said the strikers on board ships here were not running out of food. the current labour unrest is the worst faced by sarney's civilian government since it came to power two years ago. yesterday, in a separate protest, hundreds of thousands of farmers held rallies directed largely against high bank interest rates. the current rash of labour unrest in industry and agriculture stems from the failure of the government's now-collapsed cruzado plan price freeze. reuter
1	the commodity futures trading commission has approved the minneapolis grain exchange's application to trade high fructose corn syrup-55, hfcs-55, futures contracts, the commission said. the contract provides for the delivery of 48,000 lbs, plus or minus two pct, of bulk hfcs-55 meeting specified standards regarding its physical and chemical properties. cftc said the exchange plans to begin trading a july 1987 hfcs-55 contract on april 6. cftc said the soft drink industry currently buys at least 95 pct of all u.s.-produced hfcs-55, a liquid food and beverage sweetener produced through the processing of corn starch by corn refiners. reuter
1	the commodity credit corp (ccc) has accepted bids for export bonuses to cover sales of 340,000 tonnes of hard red winter wheat and 210,000 tonnes of soft red winter wheat to china, the u.s. agriculture department said. the bonuses awarded averaged 36.22 dlrs per tonne, and the wheat is scheduled for delivery during may-oct 1987. the bonus awards were made to cargill, inc (305,000 tonnes), continental grain co (155,000 tonnes), mitsubishi international corp (60,000 tonnes) and richco grain co (30,000 tonnes). bonuses will be paid to the exporters in the form of commodities from ccc stocks. the purchases complete the export enhancement program initiative for china announced jan 26. reuter
1	the recent purchase of 1.5 mln tonnes of u.s. corn by japan and 600,000 tonnes by south korea suggests that the two countries' demand for reliable supplies of corn is increasing, the u.s. agriculture department said. in its world production and trade report, the department said that view is reinforced by the expectation of a decline in exportable supplies of argentine corn and uncertainty over the availability of south african and chinese corn. with these corn purchases, japan is committed to buying 7.7 mln tonnes of u.s. corn in 1986/87 (sept-aug), nearly 400,000 tonnes greater than year-ago figures to date. south korea's cumulative commitments amount to 2.5 mln tonnes, up 1.5 mln compared to last year, it said. reuter
1	enrollment in the u.s. agriculture department's fourth conservation signup is expected to be announced tomorrow, and usda officials said the figure may be higher than total enrollment for the first three signups. enrollment will be in the range of seven to 12 mln acres, usda conservation specialists said. total enrollment so far in the 10-year conservation program is 8.9 mln acres. producers submitted bids to enter 11 to 12 mln acres into the program, milton hertz, administrator for usda's agricultural stabilization and conservation service said at a congressional hearing yesterday. not all the bids will be accepted, hertz said, but enrollment is expected to be high. as in the first three signups, the great plains area is expected to attract the greatest enrollment. "the great plains area will be the predominate area which we'll get signup in," a usda conservation specialist said. marginal corn acreage will likely be the bulk of the acreage pulled from that area, he said. fringe soybean acres in the southeast and some bean acreage in the midwest are also expected to be taken out of production, but the usda source said this would be a relatively small percent of the total. a special two dlr bonus to corn producers who enroll part of their corn base acreage into the program has sparked more interest in this latest signup, usda officials said. under the program, usda pays farmers annual rents to take land out of production for 10 years. the average rent payment accepted in the first three signups was 43.50 dlrs per acre. reuter
0	distillate fuel stocks held in primary storage fell by 8.8 mln barrels in the week ended march six to 119.6 mln barrels, the energy information administration (eia) said. in its weekly petroleum status report, the department of energy agency said gasoline stocks were off 500,000 barrels in the week to 251.0 mln barrels and refinery crude oil stocks fell 1.2 mln barrels to 331.8 mln. the eia said residual fuel stocks fell 1.5 mln barrels to 36.4 mln barrels and crude oil stocks in the strategic petroleum reserve (spr) rose 200,000 barrels to 516.7 mln. the total of all crude, refined product and spr stocks fell 10.3 mln barrels to 1,564.8, it said. reuter
1	heavy rains fell again in argentina's main grain growing areas in the week to yesterday, trade sources said. rains fell heaviest early in the week, and in particularly high volume in buenos aires province, cordoba, la pampa and santa fe provinces. rainfall totalled between 20 and 290 mm in buenos aires, heaviest in western sectors of the province, 20 to 145 mm in la pampa, 25 to 120 mm in cordoba, and 10 to 75 mm in santa fe. rainfall was lighter in other provinces. rainfall totalled from five to 50 mm in corrientes, five to 31 mm in san luis, five to 30 mm in entre rios, three to 20 mm in misiones, 11 to 17 mm in formosa and one to eight mm in chaco. growers said it was still too early to tell whether the rains had damaged crops, though they said maize and sunflower crops may have suffered. harvesting of both those crops and sorghum was paralysed by the bad weather. for harvesting to resume as normal, the rains would have to stop long enough for the soil to dry and allow farm machinery to operate. the rains caused flooding in western and northwestern buenos aires, as more than 750 mm have fallen in some areas there since february 23 while the annual average is 1,200 mm. flooded areas total between 1.2 and 1.5 mln hectares, buenos aires province governor alejandro armendariz said after flying over the flooded area. agriculture secretary ernesto figueras said only 500,000 hectares of the area now flooded had been planted, and that 200,000 to 300,000 hectares could be lost. growers said large parts of the flooded areas were not planted because they are low-lying and flood easily. trade sources said it was certain crops were damaged by the heavy rains but it was too early to tell the exact extent of the damage. they said it was likely rain combined with high winds uprooted many sunflower and maize plants. the sunflower harvest moved forward in the centre and south of cordoba and santa fe and got underway in a few isolated areas of northern buenos aires. growers have harvested between 15 and 18 pct of total planted area, up from seven to nine pct a week ago. estimates of the total volume of the sunflower crop were revised downward in light of the bad weather. estimates for total crop ranged from 2.3 to 2.6 mln tonnes, down from 2.4 to 2.7 mln tonnes estimated last week and down 34.1 to 41.5 pct from last year's record harvest of 4.1 mln tonnes. maize harvesting also advanced, reaching between 13 and 15 pct of total planted area compared to seven to nine pct a week ago. the maize harvest is expected to total between 10 and 10.2 mln tonnes, down from the 10 to 10.4 mln tonnes estimated a week ago. last year's maize harvest totalled 12.8 mln tonnes, according to official figures. soybean production estimates were revised downward, to 7.8 to 8.2 mln tonnes compared to estimates of eight to 8.4 mln tonnes a week ago. last year's soybean harvest totalled 7.1 mln tonnes, according to official figures. sorghum harvesting moved slowly forward, reaching between four and six pct of total planted area, compared to two to four pct a week ago. sorghum production estimates remained steady at 3.2 to 3.5 mln tonnes, down 16.7 to 22 pct from the 4.1 to 4.2 mln tonnes produced in the last harvest. reuter
0	usx's subsidiary, marathon petroleum co, said it will raise its contract prices for eleven grades of crude oil 50 cts a barrel, effective tomorrow. the increase brings marathon's posted price for west texas intermediate and west texas sour grades to 17.50 dlrs a barrel. the light louisiana grade was also raised 50 cts to 17.85 dlrs a barrel. reuter
0	usx corp said proved reserves of oil and natural gas liquids fell 28 pct to 802.8 mln barrels at the end of 1986 from 1.12 billion barrels at year-end 1985. the figures, in usx's just-released 1986 annual report, indicate much of the drop resulted from the exclusion of 293.7 mln barrels of libyan reserves, after the u.s. government last june directed u.s. oil companies to end libyan operations. usx, which owns marathon oil co and texas oil and gas corp, had 60 pct of its 1986 sales of 14.94 billion dlrs from its oil and gas operations. about 24 pct of total sales came from usx's uss steel unit and 16 pct from diversified businesses, which include oilfield services, raw materials, minerals, chemicals and real estate. according to the report, domestic liquids reserves fell slightly to 628.5 mln barrels from 628.9 mln and foreign reserves fell to 174.3 mln from 486.4 mln barrels. the large drop in foreign reserves was in the middle east and africa, where they fell to about 9.3 mln barrels from 316.7 mln, reflecting the exclusion of libya. total natural gas reserves fell to 4.82 trillion cubic feet at year-end 1986 from 5.18 trillion at the end of 1985. again, most of the drop came from the middle east and africa, where reserves fell to zero from 71.9 billion cubic feet, excluding libyan reserves. u.s. natural gas reserves fell to 3.44 trillion cubic feet from 3.65 trillion and foreign reserves fell to 1.38 trillion from 1.53 trillion. in other areas, usx said total capital spending fell to 962 mln dlrs in 1986 from 1.78 billion dlrs in 1985. the 1986 audited figure is eight mln dlrs higher than the unaudited figure the company reported on jan 27. usx also said it expects to record a gain of 150 mln dlrs in 1988, representing 50 pct of previously existing investment tax credits allowable under the new tax law. the loss of the other half of the credits was reflected in the fourth quarter. in a discussion of steel results, usx said plants that were shut down last month and some previously idled plants may be permanently closed. usx took a fourth quarter charge of 1.03 billion dlrs to restructure its steel operations. the charge included the "indefinite idling" last month of four plants in utah, pennsylvania and texas. other plants or parts of plants in pennsylvania, indiana, alabama, ohio and chicago had been previously idled. "these operations are not permanently shut down. improved market conditions for the products from these plants may make it feasible to reopen some of them," usx said in the report. "on the other hand, a lack of any future market improvement may necessitate their permanent closing," it added. reuter
0	venezuela will supply ecuador with an as yet undetermined amount of crude oil to help it meet export commitments, seriously affected by last week's earthquake, energy and mines minister arturo hernandez grisanti said. he gave few details about the deal, but said a crude oil loan agreement will be made between state oil companies petroleos de venezuela (pdvsa) and ecuador's cepe. ecuador was forced to suspend oil exports for an expected four months after an earthquake damaged a pipeline. oil accounts for 60 per cent of its export income. hernandez was speaking to reporters at miraflores palace on the results of talks with ecuador's deputy energy minister fernando santos alvite, who arrived here last night. "the volume lent to ecuador would be discounted from its opec quota and would not affect venezuela's," he said. "we would from august on produce our own quota and sell the additional amounts that ecuador would be repaying us," he said. he did not elaborate on the quota arrangements but did say ecuador would notify opec by telex that venezuela would be lending it a certain amount over so many days. venezuela's opec output quota is currently 1.495 million barrels a day, and ecuador's has been set at 210,000 bpd. reuter
0	ecuador will ask opec to raise its oil export quota by 100,000 barrels per day to 310,000 to compensate for lost output due to last week's earthquake, deputy energy minister fernando santos alvite said. santos alvite, who arrived in caracas last night to discuss an aid plan for ecuador, did not say when the organisation of petroleum exporting countries (opec) would be approached. the additional output would be related to plans now under discussion for venezuela and mexico to lend ecuador crude while it repairs a pipeline damaged by the quake. earlier, venezuelan energy and mines minister aturo hernandez grisanti said his country would supply an unspecified part of ecuador's export commitments. but santos alvite told reporters he hoped a first cargo of 300,000 barrels could leave maracaibo this weekend to supply refineries near guayaquil. he added ecuador also wanted to make up for 50,000 bpd it shipped to caribbean destinations. mexico might supply ecuador's south korean market. ecuador may be unable to export oil for up to five months due to extensive damage to a 25 mile stretch of pipeline linking jungle oilfields to the pacific port of balao. reuter
0	china has closed the second round of bidding by foreign firms for offshore oil exploration rights, the china daily has reported. it quoted a spokesman for the china national offshore oil corp (cnooc) as saying china signed eight contracts with 15 foreign firms for blocks in the pearl river mouth and south yellow sea covering a total area of 44,913 sq km. second round bidding began at the end of 1984 and only one well has so far produced results -- lufeng 13-1-1, 250 km south-east of shenzhen, with an output of 6,770 barrels a day. the well was drilled by a group of japanese companies. the spokesman added cnooc was ready to enter into contracts for offshore blocks before third round bidding began. he did not say when this would be, but added the contracts would not be bound by restrictions imposed during the second round. china has signed 36 oil contracts and agreements with 37 companies from 10 countries since 1979, when offshore exploration was open to foreigners. eleven contracts were terminated after no oil was discovered. foreign firms have invested 2.1 billion dlrs on offshore china since 1979. reuter
1	taiwan's maize import commitments are expected to rise to 970,000 tonnes in the first four months of 1987 from 870,000 tonnes a year earlier, a spokesman for the joint committee of maize importers told reuters. he said more than 75 pct of the imports come from the u.s. and the rest from south africa. the maize import target for calendar 1987 is set at well over 3.4 mln tonnes compared with an actual 3.07 mln in 1985, he added. reuter
1	the australian wheat board's (awb) 1986/87 export program is well advanced with over 10 mln tonnes already sold, awb general manager ron paice said. "we are certainly within reach of our 15 mln tonne export target for the year," he said in a statement. he did not detail the commitments already made, but an awb spokesman said they include sales to egypt, china, iran, the soviet union and iraq. in the 1985/86 wheat year ended september 30, the awb exported a record 15.96 mln tonnes. paice also said the 1986/87 australian wheat harvest has ended after a long, cool summer with 15.14 mln tonnes delivered to the awb. the season produced another good crop, with only 0.2 pct of receivals being downgraded to feed quality, he said. however, it is likely that some weather-damaged grain was still being held on farms and further milling and feed wheat may be delivered following the recent announcement of the final guaranteed minimum price for 1986/87, he said. paice did not give a crop estimate, but the awb's february wheat australia publication put the crop at 16.7 mln tonnes. but the awb spokesman said it is likely this estimate could turn out to be too high, based on the receivals level, and the final crop figure would probably be nearer to 16.2 mln tonnes. the official estimate is not yet available. in the 1985/86 season, the awb received 15.08 mln tonnes of the 16.13 mln tonne crop. another 422,000 tonnes was retained on-farm and 620,000 sold under the permit system introduced in 1984/85 to allow farmers to sell feed wheat to the grain trade outside the awb's receival system, according to bureau of agricultural economics data. reuter
1	china's wheat imports in january were 218,000 tonnes, down from 393,000 in january 1986, the china daily business weekly said, quoting customs figures. it said imports of sugar were 25,165 tonnes, down from 54,000, but exports of rice rose to 71,144 tonnes from 20,000. it gave no more details. reuter
0	china has closed the second round of bidding by foreign firms for offshore oil exploration rights, the china daily has reported. it quoted a spokesman for the china national offshore oil corp (cnooc) as saying china signed eight contracts with 15 foreign firms for blocks in the pearl river mouth and south yellow sea covering a total area of 44,913 sq km. second round bidding began at the end of 1984 and only one well has so far produced results -- lufeng 13-1-1, 250 km south-east of shenzhen, with an output of 6,770 barrels a day. the well was drilled by a group of japanese companies. the spokesman added cnooc was ready to enter into contracts for offshore blocks before third round bidding began. he did not say when this would be, but added the contracts would not be bound by restrictions imposed during the second round. china has signed 36 oil contracts and agreements with 37 companies from 10 countries since 1979, when offshore exploration was open to foreigners. eleven contracts were terminated after no oil was discovered. foreign firms have invested 2.1 billion dlrs on offshore china since 1979. reuter
0	ecuador will ask opec to raise its oil export quota by 100,000 barrels per day to 310,000 to compensate for lost output due to last week's earthquake, deputy energy minister fernando santos alvite said. santos alvite, who arrived in caracas last night to discuss an aid plan for ecuador, did not say when the organisation of petroleum exporting countries (opec) would be approached. the additional output would be related to plans now under discussion for venezuela and mexico to lend ecuador crude while it repairs a pipeline damaged by the quake. earlier, venezuelan energy and mines minister aturo hernandez grisanti said his country would supply an unspecified part of ecuador's export commitments. but santos alvite told reporters he hoped a first cargo of 300,000 barrels could leave maracaibo this weekend to supply refineries near guayaquil. he added ecuador also wanted to make up for 50,000 bpd it shipped to caribbean destinations. mexico might supply ecuador's south korean market. ecuador may be unable to export oil for up to five months due to extensive damage to a 25 mile stretch of pipeline linking jungle oilfields to the pacific port of balao. reuter
1	a japanese real estate company said it will launch a campaign to sell land in u.s. farming areas to rich japanese. higashi nippon house said it would offer around 2,200 acres of land in illinois, california, florida and indiana from early april to gauge response. it set up international farm corp of america in chicago last september to oversee the operation. american farmers would continue as working tenants and part of the profits from harvests of rice, corn, soybean and oranges would go to the japanese investors as rental. japanese agriculture ministry officials told reuters sales were limited to farmers to keep land in agricultural use. "two years ago, i began to seek my own farmland in japan," said isao nakamura, president of higashi nippon. "however, sale of japanese farmland is strictly controlled by the government, so i began to look for the land in the u.s to make my dream to own farm land come true." nakamura said hundreds of companies exist in the u.s. to sell farmland to investors as more and more farmers face difficulties due to the recession in u.s. agriculture. reuter
0	dune resources ltd said its oil reserves increased 225 pct during 1986 while its natural gas reserves were up six pct. the company said its proven oil reserves were estimated at 605,682 barrels on december 31, up from 186,655 barrels a year earlier boosted by discoveries during the year put at 423,659 barrels. it said gas reserves rose to 8.8 mln cubic feet from 8.3 mln on dec 31, 1985, as discoveries of nearly 1.3 mln cubic feet were partialy offset by production of 287,391 cubic feet and downward revisions of previous estimates totaling 491,694 cubic feet. reuter
0	most japanese companies have decided not to renew term contracts to lift iranian crude oil because spot prices remain considerably lower than opec's official levels, industry sources said. they said a cargo of the mideast benchmark crude dubai traded yesterday at 16.50 dlrs a barrel, compared to its official price of 17.42 dlrs. only one japanese company has renewed its term contract for iranian crude oil for the second quarter, the sources said. the sources said japanese companies had been lifting a total of about 185,000 barrels per day (bpd) of iranian crude under term contracts, but only one firm has agreed to lift in the second quarter. it is lifting just 10,000 to 15,000 bpd. they said this move could inspire iran to offer discounts on cargoes loading in april, but the likelihood of discounts depended largely on the levels of spot prices. "if the spot price of dubai goes above 17.30 dlrs we would probably buy iranian crude at the official price," one japanese refiner said. "we don't intend to put pressure on them," he added. buyers have little incentive to renew contracts to lift oil at official opec prices while spot prices on all grades are considerably lower, oil traders said. they said if spot prices move higher there will be no problem finding opec crude to purchase at the official prices. qatar has chartered floating storage for its crude oil after finding no buyers at official prices in march. the problem is likely to recur in april, adding to that country's surplus. the traders added that iraq had dissociated itself from opec's december production agreement, while agreeing to the fixed prices. but oil analysts said if opec keeps group output close to its first-half 1987 ceiling of 15.8 mln bpd, supply and demand would be balanced by the end of the second quarter. they also said if opec holds its official price structure based on a reference price of 18 dlrs, spot price fluctuations should be limited to a 16.50 to 17.20 dlrs range for dubai and a 17 to 18 dlrs range for the north sea's brent blend. one japanese refiner said, "at the moment there's a lot of pressure on opec, particularly on qatar. but if they hold out there will be no problem, and i'm beginning to trust their ability." nigerian oil minister and opec president rilwanu lukman told a news conference in lagos yesterday, "nigeria and all member countries of opec remain determined to uphold the december agreement by adhering strictly to their various quotas and official selling prices." he said opec believed consumers had drawn heavily on stocks of both crude oil and refined products, reducing them to levels well below this time last year. he said consumers would soon return to the market in search of crude. a japanese refiner said, "the european and u.s. markets are beginning to look better so opec might be quite lucky."
1	the panamanian bulk carrier juvena is still aground outside tartous, syria, despite discharging 6,400 tons of its 39,000-ton cargo of wheat, and water has entered the engine-room due to a crack in the vessel bottom, lloyds shipping intelligence service said. the juvena, 53,351 tonnes dw, ran aground outside tartous port basin breakwater on february 25 in heavy weather and rough seas. reuter
0	saudi arabian oil output has fallen to its lowest level in more than a year, giving fresh evidence of the kingdom's determination to keep oil prices at 18 dlrs a barrel, as agreed by opec last december, oil industry sources said. they said saudi output in the first eight days of march averaged 2.6 mln barrels per day (bpd) including oil from the neutral zone shared with kuwait, compared to a february average of 3.5 mln bpd. they said saudi arabia was also selling oil from its crude oil stocks in tankers around the world, which opec says must be counted towards a member's production quota. saudi arabia's quota is 4.133 mln bpd. the lower production levels indicated saudi arabia, the world"s largest oil exporter, was insisting on getting opec official prices, even at the cost of lower production, the sources said. king fahd reiterated yesterday, in an interview with reuters and the television news agency visnews, the saudi commitment to opec's december pact to boost oil prices to an average 18 dlrs. "saudi arabia is completely sticking to opec decisions," he said. the sources said the kingdom's exports from gulf ports averaged one mln bpd during the eight days ending last sunday, down from a february average of 1.9 mln bpd. they said saudi arabia was allowing production to fluctuate with lifting nominations and was not trying to maintain artificially high levels by putting oil into storage. the kingdom's main buyers, the four u.s. oil firms with past stakes in the national oil company aramco -- mobil, exxon, texaco and chevron -- enjoy considerable flexibility in the timing and volume of their liftings but are bound to pay official prices, the sources said. spot market prices have firmed in the past two weeks but still remain below opec levels and major buyers have delayed liftings in the hope they would improve, the sources said. they expected low early march output to pick up towards the end of the month as buyers sought to fulfill their contractual obligations. reuter
1	a portuguese court has made a preliminary ruling that the state grain buying agency epac should not be allowed to take part in public import tenders open to private importers, grain traders and officials said. under the terms of portugal's january 1986 accession to the european community, ec, a grain import monopoly held by epac (empresa publica de abastecimento de cereais) is being reduced by 20 pct annually until all imports are liberalised in 1990. private traders protested last year that epac was being permitted to take part in tenders open to them for the first liberalised 20 pct share of the country's annual import needs. the grain and oilseed importers association acico opened legal proceedings to stop epac participating in the public tenders. miguel ascensao of acico told reuters that lisbon's civil court, in a preliminary ruling, had decided epac should not be allowed to take part in tenders open to private traders. trade sources said the ruling, though effective immediately, was subject to appeal and would have to be confirmed in further proceedings. a member of the government cereals market commission said that, as a result of the court's decision, the commission would not be able to accept offers from epac in a public tender being held today for the import of 80,000 tonnes of corn. ascensao said the court ruling stated that epac's participation in the public tenders violated the clauses of portugal's ec accession treaty dealing with the gradual dismantling of the state agency's import monopoly. it also said the participation of epac, which still controls the national grain storage and distribution network, was unfair competition to the private traders. traders said they believed the ec's executive commission was unlikely to get involved in the dispute, preferring to leave the case to be resolved as an internal portuguese issue. "they (the ec commission) will be keeping a low profile," one trader said. acico says it is ready to take its case to brussels if necessary. reuter
1	the european community's, ec, cereal management committee granted export licences for 5,000 tonnes of quality soft bread-making wheat at a maximum export rebate of 134.75 european currency units, ecus, per tonne, traders said. the committee also granted export certificates of 35,000 tonnes of barley at 137.35 ecus per tonne, but rejected all bids for the export of soft feed wheat, they said. certificates were also granted for the export of 15,000 tonnes of maize at a maximum rebate of 132.90 ecus per tonne, the traders said. reuter
1	u.s. agriculture secretary richard lyng said he will ask japan to offer a share of its rice market to u.s. exporters when he visits that country next month. in an interview with reuters, lyng also said the reagan administration will ask tokyo to remove its quotas on u.s. beef and citrus exports. lyng, who plans to be in japan april 14-27, said he will not ask tokyo to liberalize fully its rice market. "we will urge that they consider sharing their rice market," he said. the usda secretary would not say how big a share of the japanese rice market the u.s. would request. "we've got none of it now. if we got one per cent of it, it would be a big improvement," he said. last year, the reagan administration rejected a petition by the u.s. rice industry seeking relief from japanese import restrictions. however, the u.s. said it would reexamine the issue if by mid-1987 japan did not roll back import barriers to u.s. rice exports. lyng said he would not be conducting formal negotiations next month with japan over their beef and citrus quotas, but that his visit "may be a forerunner in a general way" to talks prior to expiration of the bilateral agreement in march 1988. he said, however, that the u.s. "will ask for a definite liberalization of those items (beef and citrus).... when you translate 'liberalization' into japanese, it means do away with the quota." reuter
0	mobil oil corp said it will restructure its dallas-based mobil exploration and producing services inc operations april one, to provide stronger technological support to its u.s. and overseas operations. mobil said the operation will consist of two new units, technical services and application technology, along with the existing drilling and new exploration ventures groups. it said r.c. mills, president and general manager of its exploration and producing southeast inc, has been named vice president and general manager of the new operation reporting to p.j. hoenmans, president of its exploration and producing division. reuter
0	the national wildlife federation rejected an interior department draft plan to open wilderness lands in northern alaska to oil and gas exploration. the federation, the nation's largest conservation group, said further study was needed to assess any possible damage that development might have on the wildlife in the area, the coastal plain of the arctic national wildlife refuge. jay hair, the federation's executive vice president, called the interior's research into the effects of development "so fundamentally flawed that it provides little or no basis on which to make a public policy decision." hair called the department's proposal a "reflection of a largely political decision," adding "we have no confidence in interior to represent the broad public interest in this area." interior wants to open the 1.5 million acre coastal plain to oil and gas exploration, but it said only with tough safeguards to protect the area's caribou and musk-oxen. it said a preliminary survey showed the region could hold billions of barrels of oil and gas, and that its potential as an energy resource would never be known without exploration. interior said oil on the coastal plain could match the 10 billion barrels found at prudhoe bay, just west of the plain. under existing law, congress must agree to oil and gas exploration, and if it does not act, the land will remain a wildlife refuge protected from commercial development. hair said interior's report failed to stress the probability that finding recoverable oil is only 19 pct. he said interior's study also failed to weigh oil, gas, fish and wildlife information the state of alaska had gathered nor had the department consulted the environmental protection agency on the possible effects of exploration. the federation, in letters to congressmen, proposed that a nine-member commission be set up to study all aspects of the issue and report back to congress in about two years. hair said the federation was not opposed to the possible exploration of oil, only that interior's study was inadquate to make a sound judgement. congressional observers said that at present there was little sentiment in congress to open the wildlife area for commercial exploitation dispite increasing concern that the united states is becoming overly dependent on foreign oil. reuter
1	u.s. agriculture secretary richard lyng said the reagan administration had not decided on offering the soviet union subsidized wheat but that such an offer had not been ruled out. in an interview with reuters, lyng also said that he had no knowledge of any upcoming discussion of the matter within the cabinet. asked if the administration had ruled out offering to subsidize wheat exports to the soviet union under the department's export enhancement program, lyng said, "no. we haven't made a decision on it, haven't even talked about it, haven't even looked at it." reminded that there have been reports that moscow would buy u.s. wheat if competitively priced, lyng responded, "if they (the soviets) would offer to buy some wheat, would we accept it? it would depend on what price they offered." lyng added that he did not think the price of u.s. wheat was far off the world price. asked about persistent speculation that the administration would offer moscow a wheat subsidy, lyng said, "some people think they're doing it to see if they can get a little spurt in the market." agriculture undersecretary daniel amstutz last week asked the commodity futures trading commission to investigate reports that wheat prices were being manipulated by reports that a u.s. wheat subsidy offer was imminent. reuter
0	solv-ex corp said it successfully completed its oil sands pilot testing program under its agreement with shell canada limited <shc> and received a 250,000 u.s. dlr bonus payment. it also said that shell canada exercised its option to take over solv-ex's 25 pct working interest in the construction of the oil facility, relieving it of its obligation to raise about 62.5 mln canadian dlrs for plant construction. it said 30 pct of that loan was guaranteed by the government of alberta. in exchange for shell's participation, solv-ex said shell is obligated to pay it an up-front royalty and a running royalty based on the operating profits of the oil sands facility. it said the shell canada 7,500 barrel per day oil sands project will be built on shell's oil sand lease about 40 miles north of fort mcmurray in the athabasca region of northern alberta. solv-ex said the project will cost about 260 mln canadian dlrs. it said that following a final feasibility study the plant should open in the early 1990s when oil prices are expected to exceed 20 u.s. dlrs per barrel. reuter
0	union pacific corp said it will enter a 50-50 partnership with petroles de venezuela, pdvsa, to own and operate union pacific's 160,000 barrel-per-day corpus christi, texas, oil refinery. the assests to be acquired by the partnership are valued at 190 mln dlrs, union pacific said. closing is expected to take place in early april and the venture is to be called champlin refining co. the partnership will acquire the refining and distribution systems currently owned and operated by champlin petroleum, a wholly owned subsidiary of union pacific. the venture will acquire the related inventories and the champlin trade name, the company said. pdvsa and union pacific will each contribute half the capital required by the venture and arrange a revolving credit facility with u.s. and foreign banks to finance inventories and receivables, union pacific said. petroles de venezuela also signed a 25-year agreement to supply at least 140,000 bpd of venezulean crude oil and naphtha to the refinery at market related prices. under various options the in the agreement pdvsa could supply another 50,000 bpd on similar terms, the company said. "this will provide a stable, long-term supply to the refinery at competitive costs, thereby assuring the economic viability of the plant," a statement issued by union pacific said. the statement said the agreement with pdvsa will enable the company to supply a steady flow of refined products to its customers. union pacific said employees of the refinery would be transfered to the new company and would retain the same benefits as in the past. reuter
1	u.s. agriculture secretary richard lyng said he was not sure a long-term u.s.-soviet grain agreement would be worth extending when it expires next year. "it hasn't been worth much in the last two years....they haven't lived up to the agreement as i see it," lyng said in an interview with reuters. "it would be my thought that it's not worth any effort to work out an agreement with someone who wants the agreement to be a one-sided thing," he said. however, lyng said he did not want to make a "definitive commitment one way or another at this point." under the accord covering 1983-88, the soviets agreed to buy at least nine mln tonnes of u.s. grain, including four mln tonnes each of corn and wheat. moscow bought 6.8 mln tonnes of corn and 153,000 tonnes of wheat during the third agreement year, which ended last september, and this year has bought one mln tonnes of corn. lyng said he had no knowledge of how much u.s. grain moscow would buy this year. "i've seen people making comments on that and i don't know how they know, unless they talk to the soviets," he said. "i have no knowledge, and i really don't think anyone other than the soviets have any knowledge." lyng said he thought the soviets bought u.s. corn last month because "they needed it and because the price was right." "our corn has been pretty reasonably priced. and i think they've always found that our corn was good," he said. reuter
0	<powerine oil co> said its refinery here will resume operation today, with initial crude oil runs of 20,000 barrels per day. powerine, a privately-held company, said it expects the refinery to become fully operational by may, with crude oil throughput at 35,000 bpd. initial oil products deliveries are scheduled for monday, powerine said. the refinery had been closed due to a change of ownership, the company said. reuter
0	selm-societa energia montedison is to close its priolo crude refining units from march 15th to march 28th for maintenance, a company spokesman said. throughput at the refinery is currently estimated at 140-150,000 bpd, although total capacity is nearer 200,000 bpd. several other mediterranean refineries are currently shutdown for maintenance, most of which were scheduled some months ago. but industry sources said that shutdowns may have been rearranged to avoid running negative-netback crude. tighter availabilities of products as a result of the shutdowns in the med is helping to keep products markets bullish, particularly for march deliveries, oil traders said. garrone's refinery at san quirico (capacity 130,000 bpd) is due to shutdown on march 14th for three weeks, and the jointly-owned isab/garrone refinery at mellili, capacity 220,000 bpd, is due to start up around march 20-25th following its closure for maintenance a month ago, a company spokesman said. the esso italiana refineries at augusta and siracusa will not be closing this spring, a spokesman for the company said. in france, the distillation unit at societe francaise de bp's lavera refinery has been closed for maintenance since march 2, and is due to restart early april. total capacity is 181,900 bpd. it is currently operating at around 50 pct capacity, a company spokesman said. shell francaise's berre l'etang refinery will shut down in early april until mid-june, a company spokesman said. capacity is around 150,000 bpd. compagnie francaise de raffinage (cfr) will close the visbreaker at its la mede refinery in early april, but would not affect crude throughput at the refinery, a company spokesman said. current capacity is 136,000 bbl/day. despite current bullish sentiment in the med, however, traders noted that crude netbacks are beginning to look more attractive, and most maintenance shutdowns should be finished in two to three weeks. as a result, oil industry sources suggest that the situation may ease by mid-april. reuter
0	continuous rebel raids against oil pipelines and foreign exploration camps endanger colombia's present oil bonanza, franciso chona, manager of the state-run oil company ecopetrol said. "it seems the subversion wants to end with our oil bonanza," he told reporters. he was speaking after a meeting with defense minister rafael samudio, military chiefs and mines and energy minister guillermo perry to review the security situation in the light of a recent upsurge of leftist guerrilla attacks in the oil-rich arauca region, bordering venezuela. ecopetrol chief of security, retired general carlos narvaez, said security measures would be stricter and that the armed forces were closely collaborating but gave no details. samudio said new plans had been designed and hoped they would be effective. samudio stressed that, despite the most recent attacks, which cost more than four mln dlrs in damage, the overall situation had improved compared with last december when initial measures were taken to combat a wave of attacks. repeated bombings of a vital pipeline from the cano limon oilfield to the caribbean then led to a loss of 51,000 barrels of crude. reuter
0	sun co said it raised the contract price it will pay for crude oil 50 cts a barrel, effective today. the increase brings sun's posted price for the west texas intermediate and west texas sour grades to 17.50 dlrs/bbl. the light louisiana sweet grade was also raised 50 cts to 17.85 dlrs/bbl. sun co last changed its crude postings on march 4. reuter
0	the number of seismic crews searching for oil and gas in the united states dropped by nine to a total of 151 crews, a decrease of six pct from january, the society of exploration geophysicists said. the february total represented a 49 pct decrease from february 1986. worldwide, the association's monthly survey showed that seismic exploration for oil and gas increased to 395 in february, up three from the month before. africa added three seismic crews, the middle east increased by two and the far east added one while reductions were reported in central and south america, europe and the united states. reuter
0	phillips petroleum said it raised the contract price it will for all grades of crude oil 50 cts a barrel, effective today. the increase brings phillip's posted price for the west texas intermediate and west texas sour grades to 17.50 dlrs a bbl. phillips last changed its crude oil postings on march 4. the price increase follows similar moves by usx's <x> subsidiary, marathon oil, and sun co <sun> earlier today. reuter
1	the u.s. agriculture department said private u.s. exporters reported purchases from foreign sellers of 120,000 tonnes of wheat for delivery to unknown destinations. the wheat, consisting of 60,000 tonnes of hard red winter and 60,000 tones of soft red winter, is for delivery during the 1987/88 season, which begins june 1. a purchase from a foreign seller is a transaction in which a u.s. exporter contracts to buy u.s.-produced commodities from a foreign firm, the department said. reuter
0	diamond shamrock said it raised the contract price it will pay for crude oil 50 cts a barrel, effective today. the increase brings the company's posted price for the benchmark grade, west texas intermediate, to 17.50 dlrs/bbl. diamond shamrock last changed its postings on march 4. reuter
1	implementation of a one-year 0/92 pilot program for wheat and feedgrains was strongly promoted today by the chairman of a key house agriculture subcommittee as a way to cut farm costs and simultaneously give farmers another option when making their planting decisions. "we have a budget driven farm policy. it may be a shame, but we are locked into this," said dan glickman, (d-kans.), chairman of the subcommittee on wheat, soybeans and feed grains. "we need to look at ways to cut costs and not hurt the farmer. a 0/92 plan, if properly done, could do both." glickman announced this week plans to introduce a 0/92 bill for 1987 and 1988 wheat and feedgrains. an aide to glickman said that it will probably be introduced next week. glickman said a 0/92 program, which allows a farmer to forego planting and still receive 92 pct of his deficiency payment, would not be a major revision of the 1985 farm bill -- only an extension of the 50/92 option already provided under the current bill. it is premature to make any major changes in the farm bill, he said, but if agriculture has to make further cuts to meet budget goals, a voluntary 0/92 plan would be better than sharply cutting target prices, as usda has proposed. a 0/92 plan, however, would not be decoupling, but simply a different type of acreage diversion program, glickman said. decoupling -- delinking planting decisions from government payments -- is too much of a policy change to approve at this point, he said. "i don't think there is any interest in pursuing a decoupling bill this year. period. unequivocal," glickman said at the hearing. sen. rudy boschwitz (r-minn.), cosponsor of the boren/boschwitz decoupling plan, said he supports a short term 0/92 program as a move to a more permament decoupling plan. boschwitz plans to introduce a 0/92 plan in the senate. his plan would guarantee a certain deficiency payment to participating farmers, require that idled acreage be put to conservation use only, prohibit haying and grazing on extra idled acreage, limit participation to a certain number of acres in a county and provide tenant protection provisions. "i know we cannot obtain complete decoupling in 1987, but we can at least move in that direction," boschwitz said. robbin johnson, vice president of cargill, inc., testified in favor of decoupling. decoupling would end the current bias in u.s. farm policy towards overproduction and reduce farmers' dependency on the government, he said. a 0/92 plan does not go far enough in decoupling, johnson said, and would still encourage farmers to plant. officials from the national corn growers association and the national cattlemen's association said their groups oppose any 0/92 or decoupling plan due to concerns about reopening the farm bill and creating more confusion among farmers. but when asked if his association were forced to choose between a ten pct cut in target prices or a 0/92 program, larry johnson of the corn growers said they would agree to 0/92 rather than take sharp cuts in target levels. reuter
1	the use of generic in-kind commodity certificates has helped ease storage problems and is a necessary part of export promotion programs, a senior executive for the world's largest grain company said. testifying before the house agriculture subcommittee on wheat, soybeans and feedgrains, robbin johnson, vice president of cargill, inc., disputed claims that u.s. grain companies have made huge profits from certificate trading. "the certs program is not in any way a windfall to the trade," he said. johnson said that cargill has been dealing with a two pct spread in certificate transactions, and that this is within the normal grain marketing levels. johnson recognized current concern over the cost of certificates as compared to cash, but said that critics need to look more closely at the savings caused by certs, noting for example that widespread use of certs in the pik and roll marketing technique last summer helped ease storage costs. certificates are also an important part of any export promotion program, he said. "the more you look at ways to expand export markets, the more you have to look at ways to expand certs to put more grain into the market to meet demand," he said. subcommittee chairman dan glickman (d-kans.) said his committee would be looking at the certificate program later this year and studying the general accounting office report on certificate costs. reuter
0	house speaker jim wright endorsed a proposal to require the president to take action to reduce oil imports if they threaten to top 50 pct of u.s. consumption. wright told reporters the plan by sen. lloyd bentsen, a fellow texas democrat, was positive and useful. oil imports peaked in 1977 at 47 pct, were short of 36 pct last year and this year are up over 40 pct, bentsen said. the bentsen proposal, supported by 24 other senators, would would require the president to issue annual three-year oil import forecasts. in any year they threatened to top 50 pct, he would be ordered to propose quotas or other solution. reuter
1	a marketing loan for u.s. wheat, feedgrains and soybeans would do nothing to help the surplus production situation and would be extremely costly, sen. rudy boschwitz (r-minn.) said. "i think i would not support a marketing loan now," he told the house agriculture subcommittee on wheat, soybeans and feedgrains. boschwitz was one of the original supporters of a marketing loan for cotton and rice, but has since focused support on decoupling legislation, the boren/boschwitiz bill. a market loan for grains and soybeans would encourage more production, especially in high-yielding areas, would be much more expensive than the current cotton and rice marketing loans and not increase exports significantly, he said. reuter
0	permian basin royalty trust said that as of december 31, 1986, its estimated proved reserves totaled 18.5 mln barrels of oil and 52.9 mln mcf, or thousand cubic feet, of gas. this compares with yearend 1985 proved reserves estimates of 26.4 mln barrels of oil and 78.6 mln mcf of gas, permian said. permian said december 1986 future net revenues from proved reserves were 335.6 mln dlrs, down from 814.2 mln dlrs in 1985. permian said the present value of estimated future net revenues discounted at 10 pct is 165.3 mln dlrs, compared with 374.3 mln dlrs. it said the downward revisions in both proved reserves and estimated future net revenues resulted from decreased prices for oil and gas. reuter
0	unocal corp said it raised the contract price it will pay for most grades of crude oil 50 cts a barrel, effective today. the increase brings unocal's posted price for the u.s. benchmark grade west texas intermediate to 17.50 dlrs a barrel. it also brought the price for west texas sour to 17.50 dlrs a bbl. light louisiana sweet was also raised 50 cts to 17.85 dlrs/bbl. unocal last changed its crude postings on march four, and brings it price in line with other major companies, which have been raising prices steadily in recent weeks. the increase also represents the latest in a series of increases that began with usx corp's <x> marathon petroleum corp's notification yesterday evening that, effective today, it raised its crude postings 50 cts a barrel, bringing its contract price for wti to 17.50 dlrs a barrel. earlier today, sun co <sun>, phillips petroleum <p> and diamond shamrock <dia> also said they raised their crude postings 50 cts a barrel, bringing their wti contract price to 17.50 dlrs a barrel. contract prices have risen in response to higher spot market prices, oil traders said. reuter
0	southland corp's citgo petroleum corp said it raised the contract price it will pay for crude oil 50 cts a barrel, effective today. the increase bring's citgo's posted price for the west texas intermediate and west texas sour grades to 17.50 dlrs a barrel. the light louisiana sweet south onshore grade was also raised 50 cts to 17.85 dlrs a barrel, and light louisiana sweet north was increased to 17.75 dlrs a barrel. citgo last changed its postings on march four. reuter
0	the san juan basin royalty trust said proved reserves as of december 31 were estimated at 283.1 thousand cubic feet of gas and 1,087,000 barrels of oil. in the year-ago period, it said proved reserves were estimated at 346.4 thousand cubic feet of gas and 1,974,000 barrels of oil. it said the present value of future net revenues discounted 10 pct was 156.2 mln dlrs compared with 446.8 mln dlrs in the year-ago period. it also said that about 60 net infill wells are not economical to drill at december 31 prices. reuter
0	brazil's state-oil company, petrobras, cancelled a 40 mln dlr crude oil purchase from saudi arabia after the saudis refused to accept credit guarantees from the bank of brazil, a petrobras official said. export director carlos santana told a press conference the saudis were the first suppliers of oil to impose such conditions after brazil's decision to halt interest payment of its commercial debts last month. the shipment of 2.2 mln barrels represents two days of oil consumption in brazil. but santana said if the saudis change their minds and decide to respect the terms of the contract, then petrobras will lift the order to cancel the shipment. santana said if the saudis do not accept brazil's terms by monday then petrobras will negotiate elsewhere. "petrobras has been saudi arabia's traditional client since 1955. if they do not accept our conditions now, it will be much better for us, because with the market prices more or less the same, buying from iraq and china is an advantage," he said. iraq and china have barter deals with brazil, importing brazilian goods in exchange for oil, but the saudis buy nothing from brazil, he said. santana said despite a strike threat by oil industry workers and a two-week stoppage by brazilian seamen, petrobras oil stocks are "reasonably balanced." saudi arabia is brazil's second biggest oil supplier, with an average 115,000 bpd. iraq is the main supplier with 235,000 bpd. china comes third, with 58,000 bpd. "if the saudis wish to stop our trade relationship, fine, i am sure that if they do, we will be getting dozens of offers from elsewhere," santana added. reuter
1	there were no shipments of u.s. grain or soybeans to the soviet union in the week ended march 12, according to the u.s. agriculture department's latest export sales report. the ussr has purchased 1.0 mln tonnes of u.s. corn for delivery in the fourth year of the u.s.-ussr grain agreement. total shipments in the third year of the u.s.-ussr grains agreement, which ended september 30, amounted to 152,600 tonnes of wheat, 6,808,100 tonnes of corn and 1,518,700 tonnes of soybeans. shipments to the ussr in the second year of the agreeement amounted to 2,887,200 tonnes of wheat and 15,750,100 tonnes of corn. reuter
0	the world bank said it has approved a 140 mln dlr loan for india to help lessen that country's dependence on imported oil and spur development of its own petroleum resources. the bank said the loan will be used to boost production by injecting gas in the partially depleted assam oil fields and to assist exploration in other areas, including drilling 10 exploratory wells. the bank said the recipient of the 20-year loan will be oil india ltd (oil), which is the smaller of two public indian petroleum exploration and production companies. reuter
0	the world bank said it approved a 140 mln dlr loan for india to help lessen that country's dependence on imported oil and spur development of its own petroleum resources. the bank said the loan will be used to boost production by injecting gas in the partially depleted assam oil fields and to assist exploration in other areas, including drilling 10 exploratory wells. the bank said the recipient of the 20-year loan will be oil india ltd (oil), which is the smaller of two public indian petroleum exploration and production companies. reuter
0	venezuela will lend ecuador 50,000 barrels per day of crude oil over the next few months to help it meet its export commitments, energy and mines minister arturo hernandez grisanti said today. he said that under the terms of this loan, agreed during a visit here this week by ecuador's deputy energy minister fernando santos alvite, ecuador will begin repaying the loan in august. hernandez grisanti said the loan will go part way to offsetting the loss of ecuador's 140,000 in exports caused by earthquake damage to 25 miles of pipeline last week. ecuador was forced to suspend exports after the pipeline connecting its jungle oil fields with the pacific port of balao was put out of action. venezuela has an output quota of 1.495 bpd, while ecuador's is 210,000 bpd. santos alvite said ecuador will ask opec to allow it to produce 100,000 bpd above its quota when the pipeline is repaired to offset present production losses. hernandez grisanti said also a first 300,000 barrels shipment of venezuelan crude oil will leave for ecuador this weekend to help meet domestic consumption needs. the oil, part of a five mln additional crude oil loan by venezuela, will be processed at guayaquil refineries. "if we had not supplied oil to ecuador the life of this country would have ground to a halt," he said. reuter
1	china's grain exports in january totaled 386,157 tonnes, down 22.1 pct from january 1986, customs figures show. they gave no detailed breakdown. the official china economic news quoted the figures as showing tea exports rose 9.7 pct to 8,474 tonnes during the month. imports of wool rose 117.6 pct to 10,248 tonnes over the same period, the figures show. reuter
0	indonesian energy minister subroto said he sees the oil market continuing bullish, with underlying demand expected to rise later in the year. he told a press conference in jakarta at the end of a two-day meeting of south-east asian energy ministers that he saw prices stabilizing around 18 dlrs a barrel. "the sentiment in the market is bullish and i think it will continue that way as demand will go up in the third or fourth quarters," subroto said. asked about the prospect for oil prices, he said: "i think they will stabilise around 18 dlrs, although there is a little turbulence ..." "of course the spot price will fluctuate, but the official price will remain at 18 dlrs," he added. reuter
0	indonesian energy minister subroto said opec is deliberately under its production ceiling of 15.8 mln barrels to defend its 18 dlr a barrel price target. he told reporters at an energy conference in jakarta that opec had decided to maintain its price level of 18 dlrs. "we are deliberately defending the price, so opec production is less than 15.8 (mln) at the moment," he stated. asked if opec would increase production if prices went above 18 dlrs a barrel, he said this would be decided at the next opec meeting in june. "we will discuss the market situation then," he added. he said a meeting of the opec differentials committee had been postponed because "there is no need for the meeting." he did not elaborate. the committee had originally been due to meet in vienna this week. reuter
1	a total of 1.886 mln hectares was sown to wheat in britain, excluding northern ireland, up to december 1, 1986 for the 1987 crop, a ministry of agriculture census shows. it compares with 1.925 mln planted in the same period 1985. the barley area was unchanged at 952,000 ha, but oilseed rape increased to 393,000 from 333,000 ha. reuter
1	kampuchea harvested more than two mln tonnes of rice paddy in 1986, up on the crops of the previous two years, the official spk news agency said yesterday. diplomats said estimates put the 1985 harvest at less than one mln tonnes, slightly up on 800,000 in 1984. spk said kampuchea planned to expand planting from 1.5 mln to 1.93 mln hectares and boost rice paddy output to 2.5 mln tonnes this calendar year. two mln tonnes of paddy would produce some 1.3 mln tonnes of milled rice, above the 1.25 mln tonnes kampuchea says is the minimum its 7.5 mln people need. reuter
0	brazil's state oil company petrobras has cancelled a 40 mln dlr crude oil purchase from saudi arabia after the saudis refused to accept credit guarantees from the bank of brazil and did not disclose reasons, a petrobras official said. export director carlos santana told reporters the saudis were the first suppliers of oil to impose such conditions after brazil's decision to halt interest payment of its commercial debts last month. the shipment of 2.2 mln barrels represents two days of consumption. he said the saudis reported they would no longer accept letters of credit from the bank of brazil or even from saudi banks and that brazil would have to obtain credit guarantees from leading international banks. in february, brazil had contracted to buy 125,000 bpd from the saudis until june. saudi arabia is brazil's second biggest oil supplier, with an average 115,000 bpd. iraq is the main supplier with 235,000 bpd. china comes third, with 58,000 bpd. "if the saudis wish to stop our trade relationship...i am sure that if they do, we will be getting dozens of offers from elsewhere," santana added. santana said if the saudis change their minds and decide to respect the terms of the contract, then petrobras will lift the order to cancel the shipment. the saudis had put similar conditions on a previous shipment, he added. "we telexed them saying that if they insisted, we would rather cancel the contract and buy the product elsewhere," santana said. after petrobras threatened to cancel the contract, the saudis changed their minds and decided to accept the bank of brazil's credit guarantees, he said. reuter
1	the u.s. is to lend sudan 57 mln dlrs to buy 309,000 tonnes of wheat and 73,000 tonnes of wheat flour, according to an agreement signed here. under the agreement sudan will receive 50 mln dlrs for the commodities and the rest for sea transportation. the loan is repayable in 40 years, including a 10-year grace period. interest will be two pct for the grace period and three pct over the repayment period of 30 years. reuter
0	indonesian energy minister subroto said he sees the oil market continuing bullish, with underlying demand expected to rise later in the year. he told a press conference in jakarta at the end of a two-day meeting of south-east asian energy ministers that he saw prices stabilizing around 18 dlrs a barrel. "the sentiment in the market is bullish and i think it will continue that way as demand will go up in the third or fourth quarters," subroto said. asked about the prospect for oil prices, he said: "i think they will stabilise around 18 dlrs, although there is a little turbulence ..." "of course the spot price will fluctuate, but the official price will remain at 18 dlrs," he added. reuter
0	indonesian energy minister subroto said opec is deliberately under its production ceiling of 15.8 mln barrels to defend its 18 dlr a barrel price target. he told reporters at an energy conference in jakarta that opec had decided to maintain its price level of 18 dlrs. "we are deliberately defending the price, so opec production is less than 15.8 (mln) at the moment," he stated. asked if opec would increase production if prices went above 18 dlrs a barrel, he said this would be decided at the next opec meeting in june. "we will discuss the market situation then," he added. he said a meeting of the opec differentials committee had been postponed because "there is no need for the meeting." he did not elaborate. the committee had originally been due to meet in vienna this week. reuter
0	strong winds and high seas forced the closure of egypt's main port of alexandria and a nearby oil terminal, port officials said. tanker loading at the suez-mediterranean arab petroleum pipelines co in sedi kerir, southwest of here, stopped and officials said five tankers were at anchorage awaiting improved weather. reuter
1	the soviet union is rumored this morning to have bought up to 1.5 mln tonnes of u.s. corn, export trade sources said. the amount was not confirmed, but the talk was widespread through the trade. gulf cash barge basis levels jumped two to three cents this morning on the rumors, which were expected to boost futures prices on today's open. the soviet union recently bought over 1.0 mln tonnes of u.s. corn, ostensibly as a conciliatory gesture ahead of trade talks with u.s. agriculture officials. purchases rumored today were seen as a positive factor in light of a soviet trade official's statement that the previous purchase had satisfied near-term needs. reuter
0	<ors corp> said <dominion securities (alberta) inc> has been appointed to offer common shares in a new canadaina company being organized to exploit heavy oil production opportunities in canada and western europe. ors said the offer for private sale of the stock being made on a best efforts basis is designed to raise five mln canadian dlrs which the new company will invest in properties and projects using the electromagnetic well stimulation process developed by iit research institute under sponsorship of ors. reuter
0	brazil's state-oil company petrobras has asked the army to withdraw the troops which were occupying its oil installations since tuesday, petrobras said in a statement. the statement said the request for the withdrawal of the troops was made because of the calmness reigning in all of its refineries. "the request was also due to the end of the seamen's strike and the willingness of the oil industry workers to sit again by the negotiating table," the statement said. even though the petrobras statement said the seamen's strike was over, a union spokesman said only two small shipping companies had reached a pay agreement. the overwhelming majority of brazil's seamen remained on strike. the statement said a meeting between petrobras and oil industry leaders was set for next wednesday in rio, with the presence of labour minister almir pazzionotto as a mediator. petrobras said the request for the withdrawal of the troops was made at 1100 local hours (1400 gmt), but a company spokesman said he did not know if the troops had already been removed. reuter
1	grain traders and analysts look for a 10 to 12 mln acre sign-up in the usda's conservation reserve program, scheduled to be announced after 1400 cst today. the usda probably will accept about 80 to 90 pct of the acres submitted, they said. total enrollment in the first three years of the program is only 8.9 mln acres, so the sharp increase expected this year has underpinned new crop corn futures all week. however, some analysts said a 10 to 12 mln acre sign-up may end up being negative to new crop corn prices, citing trade talk earlier this year that 14 to 15 mln acres may be submitted by farmers. also, acres set-aside under the conservation program are by definition poor yielding, so the impact on total corn production will be minimal, they added. reuter
1	the soviet union has been a heavy buyer of yugoslav corn since october, purchasing close to 1.5 mln tonnes in the 1986/87 marketing year, according to a report from the u.s. agriculture counselor in belgrade. approximately 1.5 mln tonnes of yugoslav corn have already been committed to foreign buyers for 1986/87, with most of this sold to the soviet union, the yugoslav grain association reported to the u.s. official. in a report dated march 10, the official said that about 800,000 tonnes of the corn has been delivered, with the balance of 700,000 tonnes to be shipped between now and june. an additional 500,000 tonnes of corn can be shipped from july-september, the grain associaiton said, so total yugoslav corn exports could reach 2.0 mln tonnes, the counselor said. heavier than normal monthly shipping rates for yugoslav corn exports are due to the increased use of river barges for exporting corn to the soviet union, the counselor said. monthly corn shipments out of yugoslavia have averaged around 160,000 tonnes since october 1, higher than earlier estimates of 150,000, the official said. the soviet union has taken an increased share of yugoslav corn sales during this marketing year, he said. reuter
0	mobil corp chairman allen e. murray said in the annual report issued today that the company's total 1987 capital expenditures would be lower than the three billion dlrs spent in 1986. "overall capital and exploration expenditures will fall slightly below the level for 1986 although we'll be ready to increase spending whenever the outlook becomes more promising," murray said. mobil data in the annual report shows capital expenditures have been cut every year since 1984's 3.6 billion dlrs to 3.5 billion dlrs in 1985. murray told shareholders that despite the cuts "the company has promising acreage to explore as well as major oil and gas reserves to develop in the u.s., canada, europe, africa and indonesia. over the past two weeks mobil has announced restructuring of its domestic exploration and development organization and this week a restructuring of its oil services units, which support the new affiliate. "mobil's chairman has explained this change by saying we need a leaner organization to get more efficient usage from our assets," said john lord, a mobil corp spokesman. murray said in announcing the first reorganization, which will combine its current three exploration and producing affiliates into one organization, mobil exploration and production u.s. inc, that it is more effective than the present organization and will improve the company's upstream competitive position. yesterday the company said that it will restructure its mobil exploration and producing services inc, mepsi, to enhance the development and transfer of technology supporting critical areas of exploration, drilling, resevoir management and computer systems. earnings from mobil's upstream operations in 1986 were 827 mln dlrs, down 54 pct from the previous year's 1.8 billion dlrs in earnings. mobil's strategy in the exploration and production sector will be to give most attention to exploration possibilities with the greatest long term potential, the company said. in its annual report, mobil said that this will include greater emphasis on "frontier plays that, although riskier, fit our strengths of technology and size...this probably also means a shift toward emphasis in the foreign area since selective overseas exploration offers greater potential." reuter
0	brazil's labour troubles eased a little today as the authorities announced they were withdrawing troops from the country's main oil installations occupied three days ago. the troops went in at the request of the state-oil company petrobras because of the threat of a strike by 55,000 oil industry employees. petrobras said in a statement today it had requested the withdrawal of the troops. the situation in the refineries was calm, it said, and the employees had indicated their willingness to negotiate a pay deal. a national seamen's strike, however, continued and marines remained in the country's main ports. the marines were despatched to the ports after the seamen's strike, now two weeks old, was ruled illegal last friday. a spokesman at the national strike headquarters in rio de janeiro said today a total of l63 ships were strike-bound, 135 in brazil and 28 in foreign ports. yesterday two small companies specialised in the transport of chemicals, global and flumar, struck a pay accord with their seamen who have secured a 120 pct increase. brazilian newspapers today hailed these agreements as a sign that the national strike could soon come to an end. both companies employ fewer than 200 seamen and union leaders said the vast majority of brazil's 40,000 seamen were still on strike. the threat of a stoppage by oil industry employees appeared today to be receding. petrobras said in its statement that the company would meet union leaders for pay talks in rio de janeiro next wednesday. labour minister almir pazzionotto would act as a mediator. besides industrial troubles, there has also been considerable unrest this week in the agricultural sector. on tuesday hundreds of thousands of farmers held rallies throughout the country to protest against high interest rates. television reports showed some of these protests still continuing today, with farmers blockading banks with their vehicles in several towns in the states of sao paulo and parana. the strikes in brazil come as the government is trying to extricate itself from a serious debt crisis brought on by a deterioration in its trade balance. on february 20 president jose sarney announced that brazil was suspending interest payments on 68 billion dlrs of debt to private banks. because of the seamen strike exports are being delayed and the country is losing badly needed foreign exchange. reuter
0	construction workers today began building a 26 km (16 mile) pipeline to link ecuador's jungle oilfields to a pipeline in colombia through which ecuadorean crude could be pumped to the pacific coast, ecuadorean energy minsitry officials said. they said it would take about two months and at least 15 mln dlrs to build the pipeline from lago agrio in ecuador to puerto colon, colombia for connection to the colombian pipeline, which goes to the port of tumaco on colombia's pacific ocean coast. the lago agrio to puerto colon pipeline is designed to transport between 30,000 to 50,000 barrels of day (bpd) of ecuadorean crude to the colombian pipeline, they said. the colombian pipeline to tumaco has ample room for ecuadorean crude, they said. it is currently transporting about 17,000 bpd out of its 100,000 bpd capacity, an ecuadorean energy ministry official said. the ecuadorean crude reaching tumaco will be shipped by boat to ecuador for refining into oil products to meet domestic demand. the completion of the pipeline would allow ecuador to resume some of production, paralysed since march six by an earthquake the night before. the tremor ruptured the country's main pipeline from jungle oilfields to the ecuadorean port of balao, on the pacific ocean. ecuador was pumping about 260,000 bpd before the earthquake. it would take about five months to repair the pipeline to balao, government officials said. ecuador estimates that it will cost between 145 to 150 mln dlrs to repair oil installations damaged by the earthquake, energy ministry javier espinosa said. reuter
1	a greater than anticipated need, competitive prices and political motivations could be sparking soviet interest in u.s. corn, industry and government officials said. as rumors circulated through grain markets today that the soviet union has purchased an additional 1.5 mln tonnes of u.s. corn, industry and government sources noted a number of factors that make soviet buying of u.s. corn likely. first, there are supply concerns. some trade sources said recent speculation has been that last year's soviet grain crop be revised to only 190 mln tonnes, rather than the 210 mln announced, therby increasing the soviet need for grain. a drop in argentine corn crop prospects could also affect soviet corn buying, an agriculture department source said. dry weather in argentina -- a major corn supplier to the ussr -- and reported crop problems prompted usda to lower its argentine 1986/87 corn crop estimate this week to 11.0 mln tonnes, down from 11.5 mln. argentina corn exports were also cut by 500,000 tonnes to 6.8 mln tonnes. argentina has already committed four mln tonnes of this year's corn for export, a usda official said, with two mln tonnes of that booked for april-june delivery to the ussr. "significant downside potential" still exists for the argentine crop, the official said, which will decrease the amount of additional corn that country can sell to moscow. "if the soviet needs are greater than we have been thinking, then they might need more than what argentina can provide during the april to june period," he said. current competitive prices for u.s. corn have also sparked soviet buying. u.s. corn was reported to be selling on the world market earlier this week for around 71 dlrs per tonne, argentine corn for 67 dlrs -- a very competitive price spread, u.s. and soviet sources said. "this price difference makes american corn competitive," albert melnikov, commercial counselor for the soviet union, told reuters. impending crop problems in argentina will likely cause those prices to rise, and with the recently strong u.s. corn futures prices, the soviets might feel corn prices have bottomed and that this is a good time to buy, sources said. finally, some industry sources said that by buying the minimum amount of corn guaranteed under the u.s./ussr grains agreement (four mln tonnes), the soviet union may be hoping to convince the usda to offer moscow a subsidy on wheat. in an inteview with reuters this week, usda secretary richard lyng said that no decision had been made on a wheat subsidy offer, but that such an offer had not been ruled out. reuter
1	the u.s. agriculture department has accepted 10,572,402 more acres of highly erodable cropland into the conservation reserve program, usda announced. in the latest signup, farmers on 101,020 farms submitted bids on a total of 11,254,837 acres. the accepted bids for annual rental payments ranged up to 90 dlrs per acre with an average of 51.17 dlrs per acre. land entered into the conservation reserve program will be ineligible for farming for ten years and must be planted with permanent vegetative cover. producers enrolled 1,894,764 acres of corn base acreage in the conservation program to take advantage of a corn "bonus" rental payment that was offered by usda. the corn bonus, to be paid in generic comodity certificates, amounts to two dlrs per bushel, based on the ascs program payment yield for corn, for each acre of corn based accepted into the reserve. the state showing the biggest enrollment in the conservation program during this signup was texas with approximately 1.225 mln acres, followed by iowa with 1.030 mln acres, minnesota with 890,000 acres, montana 875,000 acres, and kansas with 842,000 acres. other states showing big enrollment were missouri with 646,000 acres, north dakota with 588,000 acres, and nebraska with 554,000 acres. in the corn belt states of illinois and indiana, 217,000 acres and 116,000 acres respectively were enrolled. farm land signed up to date in the conservation program totals 19,488,587 acres. bids on the previous signups ranged up to 90 dlrs per acre with an average of 45.52 dlrs. reuter
1	the 11,254,837 acres of highly erodable farmland submitted to the u.s. department of agriculture for the conservation reserve program was within trade guesses of 10-12 mln and should have an overall neutral impact on grain and soybean prices monday, grain traders said. farmers enrolled 1,894,764 acres of corn base acreage in the conservation program to take advantage of a corn bonus rental payment that was offered by the usda, which may underpin new crop futures, they said. new crop corn prices firmed earlier this week on ideas of a large sign-up in the program. but traders noted that the poor yielding acres being set-aside will result in only a modest decrease in final production figures, since farmers will concentrate on high yielding land. of a total 11,254,837 erodoble acres submitted, usda accepted 10,572,402 acres into the program at an average rental payment of 51.17 dlrs per acre. farm land signed up to date now totals 19,488,587 acres. reuter
0	prices of wholesale finished energy goods in the u.s. rose 4.0 pct in february after a 9.8 pct rise in january, the labor department said. the producer price index for finished energy goods fell by 20.9 pct in the past 12 months. heating oil prices rose 3.0 pct in february after a 18.0 pct rise in january, the department said. gasoline prices rose by 5.5 pct last month after a 15.7 pct january rise, the department said. natural gas prices rose 1.8 pct after a 4.2 pct rise in january. crude oil prices rose 4.4 pct in february, after a 19.7 pct january rise and were off 21.3 pct from the year ago level. reuter
1	authorizations to purchase 50 mln dlrs worth of u.s. wheat and wheat flour under public law 480 were issued to sudan today, the agriculture department said. the authorization provides for 34 mln dlrs -- about 309,000 tonnes -- worth of wheat, grade u.s. number two or better (except durum which shall be number three or better). it also provides for 16 mln dlrs -- about 73,000 tonnes -- worth of wheat flour. the contracting period for both commodities is march 20 through august 31, 1987. the delivery period for wheat is march 20 through september 30, 1987 and for wheat flour is april 10 through september 30, 1987, usda said. reuter
1	u.s. agriculture department (usda) figures for highly-erodible land enrolled into the conservation reserve program were regarded by most grain analysts as neutral to bearish, although some said a full state-by-state breakdown would be needed to assess the full price impact. "out of 10.5 mln acres only 1.9 mln acres were accepted in corn -- that's neutral at best and perhaps bearish to what the trade was looking for," dale gustafson of drexel burnham lambert said. the usda said it had accepted 10,572,402 more acres into the conservation program out of bids on a total of 11,254,837 acres. gustafson said he would not be changing his estimate of planted acreage for corn as a result of the latest figures, but some other analysts said they would adjust their estimates slightly. the usda is due to release planting intentions figures march 31. indications of a heavy sign-up in the conservation program recently lowered most trade estimates of corn planted acreage to 63.0 to 67.0 mln acres from 67.0 to 69.0 mln. richard loewy, analyst with prudential bache securities, said there was not enough information to completely assess the conservation figures. "the 1.9 mln acres on corn is certainly disappointing," he added. the usda later released the state-by-state breakdown of the enrollment figures. loewy said the initial figures appeared to be negative for both new crop corn and soybeans, and might possibly mean an upward adjustment in planting intention figures. asked about the impact on the flow of generic certificates onto the market this spring, he said: "the trade was definitely looking higher, so certificates are going to be less than expected." the usda offered a special corn "bonus" rental payment to the farmers to be paid in generic certificates. the bonus amounts to two dlrs per bushel, based on the farm program payment yield for corn, for each acre of corn accepted into the reserve. katharina zimmer, analyst for merrill lynch futures, said the conservation sign-up was slightly higher than she had expected, although she noted that some trade expectations were considerably higher than the actual figures. "i think it is friendly for the market, at least in the long run," she said. susan hackmann of agrianalysis said there was some confusion over whether trade ideas of an enrollment figure between 15 and 18 mln acres referred to the total sign-up or the latest addition. "it seems the trade was looking for more acres to be bid into the program," she said. hackmann said she would not make much change to her ideas about corn planting figures as a result of the conservation sign-up. she added that while some trade guesses were as low as 61 mln acres, she was looking for corn plantings to be in the high 60's. zimmer of merrill lynch said she would be making a slight reduction of about one mln acres in her planting estimate to around 64 mln acres. new crop corn prices at the chicago board of trade firmed earlier this week on ideas of a large sign-up in the program, despite the fact that acres enrolled are generally poor yielding and not likely to make a substantial difference to final production figures. reuter
0	venezuela will lend ecuador up to 12.5 mln barrels of crude oil to help it meet its export commitments and its domestic energy demand, ecuadorean energy and mines minister javier espinosa said today in a statement. ecuador was forced to suspend exports after the pipeline connecting its jungle oil fields with the pacific ocean port of balao was damaged last week by an earthquake. venezuela would lend 50,000 barrels per day of crude for a total of up to to 7.5 mln barrels to help ecuador meet export commitments, espinosa said. also, venezuela will sell the crude and provide the foreign exchange earnings to ecuador, he said. ecuador would repay venezuela in crude once it resumed its exports after repairing its pipeline to balao, a task that would take an estimated five months. venezuela is lending ecuador five mln barrels of crude for refining in this country to meet domestic demand. ecuador would repay that loan with crude once the oil pipeline is repaired. both countries are the only latin american members of the organisation of petroleum exporting countries (opec). ecuador was exporting about 140,000 bpd before the earthquake, energy ministry officials said. its total output was around 260,000 bpd. reuter
0	petroleos de venezuela, s.a. said it will sign a contract march 17 to buy a half interest in a corpus christi, texas refinery and related operations. the contract, to be signed by pdvsa and champlin petroleum's parent company, the union pacific corp <unp>, will create a new joint venture called champlin refining. the state oil company said pdvsa will pay on the order of 30 mln dlrs for the half interest in champlin. energy minister arturo hernandez grisanti said wednesday the cost would be 33 mln dlrs in cash, plus an additional 60 mln in crude and refined oil shipments. pdvsa and union pacific have sought a line of credit from a group of north american and japanese banks to finance the new company's working capital, the venezuelan company said. under the deal, pdvsa will supply up to 140,000 barrels a day to the refinery with the option to place 50,000 bpd more - mostly gasoline and distillates - through champlin's distribution system in 10 u.s. states. the new company will be directed by a six-member board, with three representatives each from pdvsa and union pacific. reuter
0	saudi arabia has dropped its condition that brazil secure international bank guarantees before saudia arabia would ship it oil, the state-oil company, petrobras, said in a statement. petrobras said the saudis will accept banco do brasil credit guarantees. petrobras cancelled a 40-mln dlr crude oil purchase from the saudis yesterday after they refused to accept a letter of credit from the official bank of brazil. the saudis had demanded that brazil get credit guarantees from leading international banks. petrobras said the saudis had been advised that if they did not change their mind by monday, petrobras would negotiate the purchase of oil with other producers. the petrobras statement said the shipment of 2.2 mln barrels will be made by the saudis on march 24 as scheduled. the shipment is part contract signed in february for the saudis to supply brazil with 125,000 barrels per day until june. reuter
0	saudi arabia has lifted the condition it imposed on the sale of oil to brazil and will accept banco do brasil's credit guarantees, state-oil company petrobras said in a statement. petrobras cancelled a 40 mln dlr crude oil purchase from the saudis yesterday, after they refused to accept a letter of credit from the bank of brazil, demanding guarantees from leading international banks. it advised the saudis the company would negotiate oil purchases elsewhere unless they changed their mind by monday. the 2.2 mln barrels shipment will be made by the saudis on march 24 as scheduled, the statement said. under a 125,000 bpd contract signed in february the saudis agreed to supply oil to brazil until june. reuter
0	brazilian bank workers voted to launch a nationwide strike this month, compounding labour unrest arising from the failure of the government's anti-inflation plan. at a rally in this city, about 100 km northwest of sao paulo, about 5,000 bank workers voted to strike on march 24 unless their demand for 100 pct pay rises is met. wilson gomes de moura, president of the national confederation which groups the bank employees' 152 unions representing 700,000 workers, told reuters the indefinite stoppage would affect all banks. the vote came as a stoppage by seamen entered its third week and as 55,000 oil workers threatened action against the state-owned petroleum company petrobras. the government ordered thousands of troops into the refineries on tuesday to forestall any occupation, but the troops were removed yesterday. petrobras said it had requested their withdrawal because the refineries were calm and oil workers had indicated their willingess to negotiate next wednesday. the government has also sent marines into the main ports. a spokesman at strike headquarters for the seamen in rio de janeiro said unions were studying an offer by private shipowners for a 120 pct pay rise. seamen employed by two small companies have already accepted a 120 pct pay rise and returned to work, as have about 5,000 seamen employed by petrobras. last week also saw widespread protests by hundreds of thousands of farmers over what they see as unfairly high interest rates charged by banks. according to official estimates, prices rose by more than 33 pct in the first two months of this year. reuter
0	saudi arabian oil minister hisham nazer said opec's december agreement to stabilise oil prices at 18 dlrs a barrel was being implemented satisfactorily and there was no immediate need to change it. nazer, in an interview with reuters and the television news agency visnews, said saudi arabia was producing around three mln barrels per day (bpd) of crude oil, well below its opec quota. saudi arabia, the world's largest oil exporter, will continue to restrain production as long as other opec members adhere to the pact, nazer said. the 13-nation opec agreed in december to cut its production ceiling by 7.25 pct to 15.8 mln bpd and abide by fixed prices averaging 18 dlrs a barrel from february 1. nazer, in his first interview since succeeding ahmed zaki yamani last october, said: "i do not foresee any need for new measures before the 25th of june when our (next opec) meeting will take place as scheduled." nazer said opec was producing below 15.8 mln bpd and all members were abiding by its agreements. "we've heard news every now and then of violations but they were not at all verified," he said. opec production curbs have boosted world oil prices from a 13-year low of around eight dlrs a barrel last august to near 18 dlrs after announcement of the december pact. spot market prices slipped some two dlrs in february but have firmed in the past two weeks to near opec levels as traders gained confidence in opec price and output discipline. nazer said saudi arabia would continue to produce below its 4.133 mln bpd quota if necessary to defend the 18 dlr price. "as long as all the opec members adhere to the program as devised in december, saudi arabia will continue to adhere to the agreement," he said. current production of three mln bpd includes oil from the neutral zone shared with kuwait, but not sales from floating storage, nazer said. king fahd of saudi arabia, in an interview with reuters and visnews on march 11, said the kingdom wanted oil price stability and called on non-opec producers to avoid harmful competition with opec. "saudi arabia doesn't decide prices by itself but certainly desires price stability," he said. nazer said the output level did not mean the kingdom had returned to a role of "swing producer" within opec. saudi arabia allowed its output to sink as low as two mln bpd in august 1985 to compensate for slack demand and over-production by some opec states. "saudi arabia is not playing that role. it is being played by opec membership as a whole because the reduction in the 15.8 mln bpd share of opec in the market is being shared by other members of opec," nazer said. nazer said opec estimated demand for its oil during third quarter this year would be around 16.6 mln bpd. but he said if circumstances changed "i am sure then the opec members will consult with each other and take the necessary measures." oil analysts say the opec pact could come under strain when demand for petroleum products generally falls in the northern hemisphere spring and summer. nazer said he was satisfied with the extent of cooperation from non-opec producers. norway, egypt and the soviet union agreed to help opec by restraining production or exports after he visited them on opec's behalf earlier this year. "we did not ask any country to do anything. these were programmes they thought were necessary to stabilise market conditions and to help themselves attain better pricing conditions," nazer said. he said it was up to countries that declined to cooperate -- such as britain -- to come up with their own proposals if they saw fit. reuter
0	saudi arabian business leaders assembled for a conference aimed at thrashing out problems facing the private sector of the kingdom's oil-dependent economy. the meeting of some 500 top businessmen from across saudi arabia comes at a time of guarded optimism in industry and commerce following the opec pact to boost world oil prices. the four-day conference in this resort town, high in the mountains above the tihamah plain stretching to the red sea, has been organised by saudi arabia's chambers of commerce. finance minister mohammed ali abal-khail and commerce minister suleiman abdulaziz al-salim will attend the first day. bankers and businessmen said the conference will air problems facing commerce and industry after last year's slide in oil prices and examine ways to promote higher investment in a private sector sorely short of finance. government planners have long recognised that saudi arabia, the world's largest crude exporter, needs to foster private enterprise to diversify its oil-based economy. the fledgling private sector was hard hit by the middle east recession as early as 1983 and several big manufacturing and trading companies ran into problems repaying loans. renewed optimism this year stems largely from the accord reached by opec last december to curb oil output and boost prices to a benchmark level of 18 dlrs per barrel. with oil prices recovering, saudi arabia went ahead at the turn of the year with long-delayed budget plans incorporating a 52.7 billion riyal deficit to be bridged by drawing down foreign reserves. the simple act of publishing a budget restored a measure of confidence to the business community. some share prices have risen by more than 35 pct since last november, while banks are generally reporting a slowdown in the number of new non-performing loans. but not all bankers are convinced. one senior corporate finance manager in riyadh said: "banks are still reluctant to lend ... there is certainly more optimism in the air, but i am not sure if it is firmly based." some businessmen and bankers point out that government spending is still under tight control and the non-oil economy may still be contracting. capital expenditure on large projects has been cut sharply. a u.s. embassy report on saudi arabia published just before the budget said: "while industrialisation has continued to be one of the government's highest priorities, the recession, the payments problem and the lack of financing have reduced saudi and foreign investor interest in industry." it is the lack of fresh investment that is expected to be a major issue among the businessmen gathered here. official figures show the number of new licences for industrial ventures fell 24 pct in the six months to march 1986, compared with the same period in 1985. lending by the saudi industrial development fund, a major source of industry backing, has fallen steadily since 1983. trading companies have also been hit, some caught with huge inventories of construction equipment as recession bit. some firms laid off workers and cut bloated inventories. others have effectively been liquidated. a few have reached agreement with bankers to extend debt repayments. the latest rescheduling is for the shipping-to-hotels conglomerate redec. its negotiators have just initialled a draft accord to restructure payments on 1.3 billion riyals of bank debt. bankers and businessmen said the conference was also likely to discuss the apparent reluctance of u.s. and british firms to step up investment in the kingdom. a british government delegation has just left riyadh after holding preliminary talks on ways of offsetting the huge saudi outlay on a defence contract to supply 132 fighter aircraft worth five billion stg. reuter
1	tanzania seeks to export a surplus of 200,000 tonnes of maize from last year's bumper harvest, agriculture minister paul bomani said yesterday. the 1986 maize crop was officially estimated at 2.1 mln tonnes, but only a fraction of this was marketed, with most grain consumed by the farmers who grew it. the state-owned national milling corp (nmc) meanwhile said it is trying to sell 190,742 tonnes of maize stored in different parts of the country. nmc acting general manager john rubibira said tanzania has only 56,000 tonnes of silo storage capacity, concentrated in dar es salaam, arusha in the north and iringa in central tanzania. in addition, the country has 450,000 tonnes of flat storage capacity, he added. rubibira said the government is planning to build new silos in the main maize producing areas of iringa, mbeya, ruvuma and rukwa. reuter
0	opec produced only about 14 mln bpd of oil in the second week of march -- 1.8 mln bpd below its ceiling -- largely because of pipeline problems in turkey and ecuador, the middle east economic survey (mees) estimated. a landslide breached iraq's one mln bpd pipeline through turkey on march 6 for a week, and earthquakes in ecuador have shut down its export pipeline for four to five months. ecuador has an opec quota of 210,000 bpd. mees put saudi arabian output at 2.9 mln bpd in the first week of march and 3.1 mln bpd in the second, in addition to output from the neutral zone between saudi arabia and kuwait. mees said saudi arabia was pumping more than 300,000 bpd of its total production into floating storage. saudi oil minister hisham nazer told reuters and the television news agency visnews yesterday that saudi output, including neutral zone production, was around three mln bpd. the cyprus-based newsletter also said authoritative libyan oil sources said libya was producing 850,000 bpd, compared with its 948,000 bpd quota, and that actual liftings are much lower than that. it said one major libyan equity producer had partially stopped lifting its 55,000 bpd equity entitlement for march because libya was insisting on official prices, but is still lifting 40,000 bpd of debt crude at official prices and a further 25,000 bpd of "purchase crude." it said small equity producers, with entitlements of only 2,000 to 3,000 bpd, had also told tripoli they could not lift at official prices. mees said iraq had sent a telex to opec and member countries calling for the formation of a committee to study what it said were inequalities in marketing potential among various members. the newsletter said the iraqi letter indicated baghdad was having difficulty selling crude at official prices. the iraqi telex pointed out that some member countries export substantial volumes of oil that are not subject to opec price regulations -- exports of refined products, equity crude on which the margins are equivalent to covert discounts and "other forms of hydrocarbons" which are marketed in package deals with crude oil. reuter
1	madagascar's vital rice crop is estimated at 2,286,000 tonnes of paddy this year, up from 2,138,000 in 1986, the ministry of agriculture said. the trade ministry said rice imports quadrupled in local currency value during the first nine months of last year as the government established a buffer stock of the country's staple food. rice imports increased to 82.4 billion malagasy francs during the first nine months of last year from 20 billion in the same period of 1985, the ministry said, without disclosing the tonnages involved. reuter
0	president leon febres cordero said ecuador would honour its debt when it had the capacity to make payments, but said foreign banks had calculated oil would have to be 25 dlrs a barrel for ecuador to meet its commitments. ecuador said on friday that last week's earthquake was forcing it to reaffirm an earlier decision -- based on the slide in world oil prices -- to suspend debt payments to private foreign banks, which hold two-thirds of its 8.16 billion dlr foreign debt. "all legitimate debt is a commitment of honour," the president said during a visit to the quake zone. "a government as a sovereign entity has dignity and prestige to maintain." private foreign banks and the world bank had calculated oil would have to be at least 25 dlrs a barrel for quito to be able to meet its commitments, febres cordero said. he added that ecuadorean crude was now selling for 15 to 17 dlrs a barrel after having been sold for many months at 12 dlrs a barrel and as low as seven dlrs before that. meanwhile, ecuador announced an austerity program and a price freeze on key consumer goods as a result of the earthquake, which killed at least 300 people. presidency minister patricio quevedo said the budget would be cut by five to 10 pct, government hiring would be frozen and salaries of top officials, including the president and cabinet, would be reduced. he also said a price freeze would be imposed on 20 basic consumer items, mainly food staples, while the price of gasoline would rise by between 69 and 80 pct and bus fares would rise by 20 pct. gasoline supplies would also be limited. reuter
0	banque paribas, which arranged a 220 mln dlr loan for ecuador last year to pre-finance oil exports, wants to adjust the terms of the facility to help the country recover from a devastating earthquake, bankers said. but the french bank's plan, which would effectively postpone repayment of about 30 mln dlrs of the loan for several months, is running into stiff resistance from many of the 52 members of the loan syndicate. the pipeline that carries all ecuador's oil exports was ruptured in the march 5 tremor and will take some five months to repair at a cost of about 150 mln dlrs to repair. president leon febres cordero on friday estimated total damages caused by the quake at one billion dlrs and said that ecuador as a result would maintain january's suspension of interest payments on its foreign commercial bank debt. payments were halted in january because of the drop in the price of oil, which accounts for nearly two-thirds of ecuador's export earnings and 60 pct of government revenue. although sympathetic to ecuador's plight, many banks in the paribas facility feel that emergency financial relief is a job for international financial organizations and not for commercial banks, bankers said. the 18-month oil-financing facility, which was signed last october 28, is one of the few purely voluntary credits for a latin american nation since the region's debt crisis erupted in august 1982. because it was a voluntary deal, many bankers feel strongly that the orginal terms must be adhered to. otherwise, they fear, the gradual re-establishment of normal market conditions for latin borrowers will be set back. "there's a lot of reluctance by the other banks. they feel it's a different facility, and so any kind of suggestion of a restructuring would look bad," one banker commented. reuter
0	saudi arabian oil minister hisham nazer said opec's december agreement to stabilize oil prices at 18 dlrs a barrel was being implemented satisfactorily and there was no immediate need to change it. nazer, in an interview with reuters and the television news agency visnews, said saudi arabia was producing around three mln barrels per day (bpd) of crude oil, well below its opec quota. saudi arabia, the world's largest oil exporter, will continue to restrain production as long as other opec members adhere to the pact, nazer said. the 13-nation opec agreed in december to cut its production ceiling by 7.25 pct to 15.8 mln bpd and abide by fixed prices averaging 18 dlrs a barrel from february 1. nazer, in his first interview since succeeding ahmed zaki yamani last october, said: "i do not foresee any need for new measures before the 25th of june when our (next opec) meeting will take place as scheduled." nazer said opec was producing below 15.8 mln bpd and all members were abiding by its agreements. "we've heard news every now and then of violations but they were not at all verified," he said. opec production curbs have boosted world oil prices from a 13-year low of around eight dlrs a barrel last august to near 18 dlrs after announcement of the december pact. spot market prices slipped some two dlrs in february but have firmed in the past two weeks to near opec levels as traders gained confidence in opec price and output discipline. nazer said saudi arabia would continue to produce below its 4.133 mln bpd quota if necessary to defend the 18 dlr price. "as long as all the opec members adhere to the program as devised in december, saudi arabia will continue to adhere to the agreement," he said. current production of three mln bpd includes oil from the neutral zone shared with kuwait, but not sales from floating storage, nazer said. king fahd of saudi arabia, in an interview with reuters and visnews on march 11, said the kingdom wanted oil price stability and called on non-opec producers to avoid harmful competition with opec. "saudi arabia doesn't decide prices by itself but certainly desires price stability," he said. nazer said the output level did not mean the kingdom had returned to a role of "swing producer" within opec. saudi arabia allowed its output to sink as low as two mln bpd in august 1985 to compensate for slack demand and over-production by some opec states. "saudi arabia is not playing that role. it is being played by opec membership as a whole because the reduction in the 15.8 mln bpd share of opec in the market is being shared by other members of opec," nazer said. nazer said opec estimated demand for its oil during third quarter this year would be around 16.6 mln bpd. but he said if circumstances changed "i am sure then the opec members will consult with each other and take the necessary measures." oil analysts say the opec pact could come under strain when demand for petroleum products generally falls in the northern hemisphere spring and summer. nazer said he was satisfied with the extent of cooperation from non-opec producers. norway, egypt and the soviet union agreed to help opec by restraining production or exports after he visited them on opec's behalf earlier this year. "we did not ask any country to do anything. these were programmes they thought were necessary to stabilise market conditions and to help themselves attain better pricing conditions," nazer said. he said it was up to countries that declined to cooperate -- such as britain -- to come up with their own proposals if they saw fit.
0	saudi arabia has dropped its condition that brazil secure international bank guarantees before saudia arabia would ship it oil, state-oil company petrobras said in a statement. petrobras said the saudis will accept banco do brasil credit guarantees. petrobras cancelled a 40 mln dlr crude oil purchase from the saudis yesterday after they refused to accept a letter of credit from the official bank of brazil. the saudis had demanded that brazil get credit guarantees from leading international banks. petrobras said the saudis had been advised that if they did not change their mind by monday, petrobras would negotiate the purchase of oil with other producers. the petrobras statement said the shipment of 2.2 mln barrels will be made by the saudis on march 24 as scheduled. the shipment was part of a contract signed in february for the saudis to supply brazil with 125,000 barrels per day until june. reuter
1	u.s. agriculture secretary richard lyng said it is too late to implement a full 0/92 acreage provision, or "decoupling," for 1987 grain crops. "i think there's a chance we'll see that legislation (0/92) passed, (but) not for 1987 crops. it's too late," lyng told the national grain and feed association convention here. lyng added that there seems some support in congress for 0/92 and there was a good chance a pilot 0/92 program will be passed as part of a pending disaster bill. but he indicated that it is already too late in the year to alter the 1987 crop program. sign-up for spring crops closes the end of this month. overall, lyng predicted very little change will be legislated in the 1985 farm bill this year. reuter
1	the commodity credit corportion, ccc, has accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover the sale of 15,000 tonnes of u.s. wheat to west african countries, the u.s. agriculture department said. the dark northern spring wheat is for shipment may 15-june 15, 1987. the bonus of 40.05 dlrs per tonne was made to peavey company and will be paid in the form of commodities from the ccc inventory, it said. an additional 315,500 tonnes of wheat are still available to west african countries under the export enhancement program initiative announced october 30, 1986, it said. reuter
1	u.s. trade representative clayton yeutter said the export enhancement program, eep, should be used as a "tactical tool" and not as a general policy. yeutter made the comment in response to a question whether the u.s. should expand the eep to cover grain sales to the soviet union. he did not comment directly on the soviet question, replying that any decision would be made at the highest levels of the reagan administration, and "i don't want to preempt that." yeutter told the national grain and feed association eep should continue to be used as a tactical tool against the european community but not as a general policy. he said selective eep use has been successful in pressuring the e.c. reuter
1	a 0/92 program would have very little impact on u.s. acreage, prompting farmers to idle only an additional 3.5 mln acres of cropland every year, according to a report from the agriculture department. the savings resulting from the additional 3.5 mln acres idled would be a little over 400 mln dlrs in loan savings, 35 mln dlrs in transportation and storage savings, and 10-20 mln dlrs per year in deficiency payment savings, the report said. the usda report asssessed the impacts of the proposed 0/92 acreage program for wheat, corn, cotton, sorghum and barley. last year, almost 245 mln acres of those crops were harvested. "the likelihood that the 0-92 provisiion will cause very large acreages to be removed from crop production is quite small," the report said. "the returns on typical farms still favor participation in the usual acreage reduction programs and seeding the permitted acreage," the usda report said. the 0/92 program, which would allow farmers to forego planting and still receive 92 pct of their deficiency payment, would be most used by producers in high production/high risk areas where cost of production is high, said keith collins, director of usda's economics analysis staff. "in the heart of the corn belt, you would not get that much participation," collins said. usda estimated that an additional one mln acres of wheat would be ildled under 0/92, 1.5 mln acres of corn, 500,000 acres of sorghum and barley and 500,000 acres of cotton. production from these idled acres would be equivalent to 40 mln bushels of wheat, 180 mln bushels of corn, 20 mln bushels of sorghum, 10 mln bushels of barley, and 500,000 bales of cotton, the report said. "in determining whether to participate, a producer would need to weigh the expected cash costs of production against the loan rate ... the risk that market prices may rise above the expected levels and reduce the deficiency payment also must be considered," according to the analysis. "what you're giving up under 0/92 is the difference between the loan rate and the cost of production," collins said. for producers with low production costs, that difference is greater and can be applied to paying variable costs, he said. under these cicumstances, farmers would not want to go along with 0/92. but for high cost producers, 0/92 would be more attractive. also, as loan rates get lower, collins said there would be more incentives to participate in a 0/92 program. "i would admit that its impacts would be very marginal at first, but it is a step towards the goal of separating production decisions from government payments," collins said. in a speech earlier today before the national grains and feed association, usda secretary richard lyng said it is too late to implement 0/92 for 1987 crops since program signup will be over by the end of this month. reuter
1	u.s. trade representative clayton yeutter suggested the u.s. could file a formal complaint with the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) challenging canada's decision to impose duties on u.s. corn imports. asked about the canadian government decision to apply a duty of 84.9 cents per bushel on u.s. corn shipments, yeutter said the u.s. could file a formal complaint with gatt under the dispute settlement procedures of the subsidies code. other u.s. options would be to appeal the decision in canadian courts, or to retaliate against canadian goods, a lower-level u.s. trade official said. however, retaliation is an unlikely step, at least initially, that official said. no decision on u.s. action is expected at least until after documents on the ruling are received here later this week. reuter
1	the usda's weekly export inspection report is expected to show steady corn and wheat exports and lower soybean exports, according to cbt floor traders' forecasts. traders projected soybean exports at 16 mln to 18 mln bushels, down from 18.6 mln bushels a week ago and 20.3 mln bushels a year ago. corn guesses ranged from 22 mln to 26 mln bushels, compared with 25.2 mln bushels a week ago and 22.4 million bushels a year ago. wheat guesses ranged from 13 mln to 17 mln bushels, compared with 16.8 mln bushels a week ago and 13.4 mln bushels a year ago. reuter
0	gotaas-larsen shipping corp said it had exercised an option to build a fifth in a series of crude oil carriers to be constructed by <daewoo shipbuilding and heavy machinery ltd> in south korea. reuter
1	farmers enrolled over 6.5 mln acres of program crops in the latest conservation reserve program signup and around four mln acres of non-program crops, agriculture department conservation specialists said. soybean acreage amounted to less than two mln acres of the non-program crop acreage enrolled, a usda analyst said. heavy enrollment of non-base acreage in wheat states, of which a big percentage would be fallow and non-soybean land, accounted for a large portion of the non-program acreage, the analyst said. wheat and corn acreage comprised slightly over 40 pct of the total 10,572,402 acres accepted into the ten-year program. usda analysts gave the following enrollment breakdown: -- wheat 2,615,140 acres -- corn 1,894,764 acres -- barley 705,888 acres -- sorghum 585,552 acres -- cotton 417,893 acres -- rice 2,035 acres -- peanuts 611 acres -- tobacco 285 acres -- total program crops 6,512,700 acres -- total nonprogram 4,059,702 acres -- total enrollment 10,572,402 acres usda analysts are currently working on a complete state breakdown of crop acreage enrollment and should have it ready for publication later this week, they said. reuter
1	senator richard lugar of indiana, ranking republican on the u.s. senate agriculture committee, has not decided whether to introduce an administration-backed bill to apply the so-called 0/92 provision to 1988 through 1990 grain crops, an aide to the senator said. the reagan administration has asked lugar to offer the measure, the aide said. however, a number of farm groups have told lugar they oppose the proposal on the grounds it would reopen the 1985 farm bill, and the senator has decided to take a second look at the proposal, the aide said. last week the aide indicated lugar was planning to offer the 0/92 measure and a bill to tighten a payment limitation loophole. reuter
1	the united states has signed a public law 480 agreement with honduras to provide for the sale of 12.0 mln dlrs worth of u.s. agricultural commodities, the u.s. agriculture department said. the agreement, signed march 11, provides for the sale of about 75,000 tonnes of wheat/wheat flour worth 8.5 mln dlrs, 15,000 tonnes of corn/sorghum worth 1.5 mln dlrs and 6,000 tonnes of tallow worth 2.0 mln dlrs, the department said. the commodities will be supplied in the current fiscal year, ending september 30, and sales will be by private u.s. traders on a competitive bid basis. purchase authorizations will be announced as issued. reuter
1	missouri republican senators john danforth and christopher bond have introduced a bill that would allow wheat and feedgrain producers along the mississippi and missouri rivers hurt by flooding last year to collect at least 92 pct of their deficiency payments this year without planting. danforth aide austin schlick said the bill was similar to a provision included in a house agriculture committee-passed emergency disaster assistance bill scheduled to be taken up by the house tomorrow. schlick said flooding destroyed a number of levees along the two rivers last october, leaving farmland there vulnerable to further damage this year. reuter
1	the commodity credit corporation (ccc) has accepted a bid on an export bonus to cover the sale of 8,000 tonnes of barley to cyprus, the u.s. agriculture department said. the barley is for shipment may 5-20 and the bonus of 39.32 dlrs per tonne was made to harvest states cooperatives, the department said. the bonus will be paid in the form of commodities from the inventory of ccc stocks. the department said an additional 42,000 tonnes of u.s. barley are still available to cyprus under the export enhancement program initiative announced on august 26, 1986. reuter
1	u.s. exporters will have the opportunity to sell an additional 300,000 tonnes of u.s. durum wheat to algeria under the export enhancement program, eep, the u.s. agriculture department said. the department said the sales will be subsidized with commodities from the commodity credit corporation, ccc, inventory and the subsidy will enable u.s. exports to compete at commercial prices in the algerian market. algeria has already purchased 300,000 tonnes of u.s. durum wheat under a previous export enhancement initiative announced november 10, 1986, it said. details of the latest initiative, including an invitation for offers from exporters, will be issued in the near future, the department said. reuter
0	the senate budget committee sits down tomorrow to start drafting a fiscal 1988 budget, with the budget writers expected to look at several proposals for fuel taxes and other tax options to cut the budget. in a briefing book for the drafting sessions, a number of revenue raising tax options are proposed, including a five dlrs a barrel fee on domestic and imported oil, a fee just on imported oil, and a broad based tax on domestic energy consumption based on five pct of value. other proposals include various excise taxes and combinations of import surcharges or tariffs, including a 10 pct import across the board import surcharge that would raise 22 billion dlrs next year alone, more in later years. the committee, however, will only include revenue numbers in its proposed budget with the actual revenue decisions left to the house and senate tax-writing committees. the committee will draft a budget which its chairman, sen lawton chiles, a florida democrat, said he hopes would raise at least 18 billion dlrs in revenues, or about half the minimum 36 billion dlr deficit reduction he has in mind. the house budget committee also plans to start drafting a separate budget plan later this week, which would have to be reconciled with the senate version. the final budget would be the fiscal 1988 spending and revenue blueprint. reuter
0	a government study has concluded the u.s. will be dependent on oil from the middle east into the next century and must take steps to reduce its vulnerability, the new york times said. the newspaper said the inter-agency government study found a serious oil-dependency problem due to steadily falling domestic production and rising demand for imported oil. the study concluded that by 1995 the u.s. will be relying on foreign countries for 50 pct of its oil, more than the peak of 48 pct reached in 1977 and far above the 33 pct rate during the 1973-74 arab oil embargo. the u.s. now imports about 38 pct of its oil needs, up from 27 pct a year ago, the new york times said. it said recommendations sent to the white house by energy secretary john harrington include financial incentives to raise domestic oil production by one mln barrels a day from the current 8.4 mln barrels. the newspaper said the administration has placed increased emphasis on stockpiling oil reserves. it said the view now held is that the strategic petroleum reserve to be tapped in times of shortages, should be increased by 100,000 barrels a day, rather than 35,000 as called for in the 1988 budget. the newspaper said harrington may propose restoring the depletion allowance to major producers. "the administration also plans to renew its efforts to ...repeal the windfall profits tax, remove bars to drilling on the outer continental shelf and repeal the law that limits the use of natural gas in industrial and utility boilers," it added. the new york times quoted senator don nickles of oklahoma as saying the study greatly underestimated potential u.s. demand for imported oil in the next decade and overestimated the amount of domestic oil which would be produced. reuter
1	china's grain imports will rise in 1987 because of a serious drought and increasing demand, but will be not be as large as in the past, chinese officials and japanese traders told reuters. they said foreign exchange constraints and national policy would not allow a return to large-scale imports, which peaked at 16.15 mln tonnes in 1982. an agricultural official of the shanghai government put maximum imports at about 10 mln tonnes this year, against 7.73 mln in 1986 and 5.97 mln in 1985. officials said grain imports rose in 1986 because of a poor harvest and rising domestic demand, but remained below exports, which rose to 9.42 mln tonnes from 9.33 mln in 1985. "china is short of foreign exchange," the shanghai official said. "we cannot rely on imports, even at current low world prices. only if there is a major disaster will we become a major importer." a japanese trader in peking said chinese grain imports would rise and exports fall this year because of the drought, low world prices and rising domestic demand for human and animal consumption. "at current prices, china loses yuan on every tonne of grain it exports, though it earns foreign exchange which it badly needs," the trader said. the people's daily said last saturday a serious drought is affecting 13.3 mln hectares of arable land, which will reduce the summer grain harvest from last year's level. the paper added that leaders in some areas were not paying enough attention to agriculture, especially grain, making it difficult to achieve the 1987 grain output target of 405 mln tonnes against 391 mln in 1986. "all areas must spare no effort to raise the autumn harvest area, especially of corn, sweet potatoes, paddy rice and high-yield cash crops," it said. it added factory production might have to be reduced to provide electricity for agriculture if it was needed to fight the drought. since january, the press has devoted much attention to grain, stressing that growth in output is vital to china's economic and political stability and that prices paid to farmers are too low. officials in east china have repeatedly said stable grain production is a key state policy and outlined the measures being taken in their areas to encourage output. the shanghai official said that in one suburb, 10 pct of the pre-tax profits of factories are used to subsidise agriculture. he said rural industries in other suburbs also set aside money for grain and pay the salaries of some of the 70,000 workers available to help farmers. chu jinfeng, an official of fengbing county outside shanghai, said factory workers get 60 yuan a month and three years unpaid leave to grow grain and can keep the profits. pan huashan, an official of the agricultural department of zhejiang province, said rural industry also subsidises grain output in his province. "in addition, we are setting up grain production bases, raising the level of science and technology on the farms and improving the supply of raw materials, roads and other infrastructure," he said. the shanghai official said rural residents who work in industry or commerce usually keep their land to farm in their spare time, or let other family members farm it. in some cases, they lease the land to grain farmers. the china daily said last month that grain output should reach between 425 and 450 mln tonnes by 1990 and between 480 and 500 mln by 2000. it said growing grain should be made profitable. "the advantages the state promises grain growers actually yield tangible profits for them and are not siphoned off by intermediate agencies because of bureaucracy or corruption. only this will boost enthusiasm," it said. reuter
1	the heaviest rains for seven months are believed to have saved more than one mln hectares of drought-threatened crops in southeast china, the official new china news agency said. this week's rains have alleviated drought conditions in guangdong province, the agency said. china has warned that this year's harvest will be affected by drought in many areas. reuter
1	taiwan is scheduled to tender tonight for 450,000 to 475,000 tonnes u.s. corn, export sources said. the tender calls for 11 cargoes for delivery from april through october with early shipments fob or pacific northwest, they said. reuter
1	the intensive technology concept for grain production has put a new floor under ussr grain production, the u.s. agriculture department's officer in moscow said in a field report. the report, quoting a broadcast on radio moscow, said that due to intensive technology grain production in a "bad year" will not fall below 200 mln tonnes, and in a "good year" grain production could reach 250 mln tonnes. the u.s. agriculture department currently forecasts this year's ussr crop at 210.1 mln tonnes, and if realized this would be the third year since 1975 that the soviet union's grain harvest has exceeded 200.0 mln tonnes. the largest crop since 1975 was 237.4 mln tonnes harvested in 1978, according to usda data. reuter
1	u.s. rep. dan glickman, d-kan., chairman of the house agriculture subcommittee on wheat, soybeans and feedgrains, said he would today introduce a bill to apply the so-called 0/92 concept to wheat and feedgrains producers. glickman told reuters the measure would allow 1987 winter wheat producers and 1988 feedgrains producers the possibility of receiving no less than 92 pct of their income support payments regardless of how much acreage they planted. he also said his bill would protect program participants from reduced income payments in the event market prices rose above the loan rate. reuter
0	analyst sanford margoshes of shearson lehman brothers said he recommended a number of oil stocks today now that it is apparent that opec has succeeded in holding to its prescribed production quotas. "it is clear that opec, through jawboning and quota restraint, will boost the price of oil," margoshes said. prices of oil stocks rose sharply today in response to higher oil prices and optimism about opec quotas. margoshes said he recommends imperial oil <imo.a>, up 1/2 to 49-1/8, standard oil co <srd>, 7/8 to 62-3/4, exxon <xon> one to 83-1/8, and chevron <chv> 1-1/8 to 54-7/8. in addition, margoshes said he recommended atlantic richfield <arc> on a short-term basis, though he said he is still suspect about its debt situation. atlantic richfield rose 1-3/4 to 77. he said "the market could come down to test the 16 dlr a barrel level again, but the main thrust of investing in oil is positive right now. before the year is out we will see higher oil prices." he noted that belief that the government is interested in raising the strategic reserves is factored into the rise in oil stocks today. reuter
0	exxon corp, the world's largest oil company, said in a published interview today that it was reviewing its worldwide refinery operations and might decide to close on of its french refineries. lee r. raymond, exxon's new president, singled out the possibility of a closure of one of exxon's refineries in france during the interview. an exxon spokeswoman confirmed that raymond had specifically mentioned refineries in france but said that no specific refinery had been named. she also said that all of exxon's opertations were under constant review. exxon currently has two refineries in france, fos in the mediterranean with a capcity of 175,000 barrels per day and port jerome west of paris with a similar capacity. petroleum intelligence weekly, an influential trade journal, said, in its current issue, that they understood that exxon was looking at the possibility of refinery closures in antwerp, southern france or possibly italy. paul mlotok, oil analyst with salomon brothers inc said that with the closures exxon made in 1986 in europe and the improvement in the european refining situation, its future profits there should be good. "exxon and other major oil companies have closed a bunch of refineries in europe, upgraded the rest and shaken many of the indepedents out of the market. now with demand for products rising and efficient operations, exxon should show superior earnings," mlotok said. "just after royal dutch <rd>, they are seen as one of the highest grade refiners in europe," he added. industry sources said that the oil companies were likely to feel greater pressure on their operations in southern europe where competition from the opec countries is increasing as these producers move further into downstream operations. piw said that refiners in the mediterranean can expect increased shipments from saudi arabia and other opec export refineries. piw said "sales from libya, algeria and elsewhere are expected to reclaim markets lost to italian and other european refiners as a result of the abundance of cheap netback oil last year." reuter
1	a proposal by two u.s. house democrats to target government farm benefits to small- and medium-sized farms was warmly received by democrats on a house subcommittee today. "on balance, this is the best new idea i have seen," said rep. dan glickman (d-kan.), chairman of the house agriculture subcommittee on wheat, feedgrains and soybeans. "this is the first hard constructive proposal coming out as an alternative to the (reagan) administration's farm proposal." the plan, offered by reps. tim penny (d-minn.) and byron dorgan (d-nd), would raise target prices for wheat to 5.00 dlrs per bushel and for corn to 3.50 dlrs. producers could receive deficiency payments on up to 80 pct of normal yield but not more than on 30,000 bu of corn and 20,000 bu of wheat. the proposal also would require acreage reductions of 20 pct, eliminate generic certificates and prohibit persons not actively engaged in farming from receiving program benefits. dorgan said the bill would save 24 billion dlrs over five years, protect family farms and eliminate government accumulation of stocks because nonrecourse loans would be halted. however, rep. pat roberts (r-kan.) said the measure would "involve the federal government in deciding and defining who a family farmer is." roberts said the bill, for example, would restrict program payments to 500 acres of wheat production in western kansas. other republicans on the panel questioned how the bill would determine if a person was actively engaged in farming and therefore eligible for payments. reuter
1	the european commission is to consider proposed new higher minimum standards for sales of durum wheat into intervention stores, european community sources said. they said a document drawn up by commission officials proposes a reduction in the maximum humidity level to 13 pct from 14, an increase in the minimum weight to 78 kilos per hectolitre from 76, a tightening of other technical standards and introduction of some new ones. current public stocks of durum wheat in the ec are 1.15 mln tonnes, of which almost 1.12 mln are in italy. reuter
0	two new u.k. tax relief measures for oil producers, announced today, are aimed at encouraging developments in the north sea to go ahead and boost opportunities for the offshore supplies industry, the inland revenue said in a post-budget statement. earlier, chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson announced in his annual budget to parliament that from today, companies will be allowed to offset up to 10 pct of qualifying development expenditure on certain future oil fields against petroleum revenue tax (prt). to date, full relief was allowed for expenditure on an individual field itself, when its income stream began, but was not immediately available against other development expenditure, the statement said. the new relief will apply to fields outside the southern basin for which development consent is first given on or after today, and will improve the post-tax economics of new developments and encourage companies to proceed with project which might have been delayed, it said. lawson also announced that he would henceforth allow certain expenditure on oil related research which does not at present qualify for prt relief to be offset against prt liability. this means oil-related expenditure in the u.k. or on the u.k. continental shelf, which has not become allowable in a particular field within three years of being incurred, to be allowed against prt liability in any oil field, the inland revenue said. this brings the scope of prt relief for research costs more in line with corporation tax relief measures, and is planned to encourage general research into ways of reducing field development costs, it said. in due course, the industry should benefit by over 100 mln stg a year, it calculated. the inland revenue statement also included other technical measures that lawson did not comment on in his budget speech. these included measures to allow companies to balance their shares of prt-exempt oil allowances through reallocation in two past periods of allowance utilisation. tidier rules on incorrectly allowed prt expenditure reliefs were announced, while there were also ammendments on rules on corporation tax and advance corporation tax relating to the so-called "ring fence" of activities in the u.k. and its continental shelf. the finance bill will have provisions for the implementation of measures announced in november, it said. gareth lewis davies, a north sea expert with stockbrokers wood mackenzie and co inc in edinburgh, thought the two reliefs on prt would help the depressed offshore industry. he said the 10 pct cross field allowance relief would favour chances that development of smaller north sea fields such osprey, don and arbroath would be brought forward. early development of the larger miller and bruce oil fields might also be encouraged, he said. lewis davies said the measure might also aid the offshore construction industry, which suffered a huge amount of lay-offs under the price slump of more than 50 pct last year. he pointed out that the relief only applies to the development of new fields outside the southern basin. this means more jobs could be created, as the fields in the central and northern sectors of the north sea are deeper than in the south and thus have greater capital and labour requirements as the waters are deeper than in the south. he said the prt relief for certain research expenditure would help fundamental research in the oil industry, although the benefits of this research would not be seen for several year. reuter
0	plains resources inc said that as of december 31, its estimated proved oil and gas reserves rose by 27 pct to 5.43 mln barrels from 4.27 mln barrels and proved developed reserves rose 16 pct to four mln barrels from 3.45 mln barrels a year ago. the company said its year end reserves did not include the oil and gas reserves of houston oil fields co which recently agreed to merge with it, pending shareholder approval in mid-april. if approved, the merger will add another 3.2 mln barrels to the company's reserve base. reuter
1	light, scattered showers covered winter wheat areas in the north china plain in the week ended march 14, moistening topsoils for wheat, just breaking dormancy in most central and northern areas, the joint agricultural weather facility of the u.s. agriculture and commerce departments said. in its international weather and crop summary, the agency said southern winter wheat areas are in the early vegetative stage. above-normal february temperatures over the north china plain caused winter grains to break dormancy early in the south. moderate to heavy rains in southern jiangsu, anhui, eastern hebei, hunan , jiangxi, fujian, and zheziang, reversed february's below normal precipitation pattern. the agency said the wet weather in these areas provided ample moisture for rice planting and lessened the need for irrigation. mostly dry weather in early-rice areas of guanxi and guandong resulted in irrigation for continued rice planting, it said. reuter
0	a white house-ordered report said that growing u.s. reliance on foreign oil into the year 2000 could have potentially damaging implications for national security. the energy department study discusses several options to curb reliance on foreign oil, but makes no recommendations. president reagan and most congressmen have previously ruled out a tax on foreign oil as a way to curb imports and to help the depressed domestic oil industry. energy secretary john herrington said in a statement that "although we have made gains in energy security in the last six years, this report shows that there is justification for national concern both over declining competitiveness of our domestic oil and gas industry and over rising oil imports." the report said imports last year were 33 pct of u.s. consumption and by the mid-1990s could rise to 50 pct. among the report's options to ease u.s. reliance on foreign oil are several already advocated by the reagan administration. president reagan ordered the study last september, citing a determination that the country never again become captive to a foreign oil cartel, referring to the opec-led oil shortages and sharp prices increases of the 1970s. the report said an import fee would raise prices and help make it economical for u.s. oil firms to find and produce new oil, as well as to cut imports, but on the whole the tax would depress the nation's economy. reuter
0	an eventual oil import fee in the united states will make no difference to champlin petroleum corp's joint venture agreement signed today with petroleos de venezuela (pdvsa), champlin chairman william adams said. "this was an aspect which was discussed at length during the negotiations, but we can say our contract covers all eventualities in this regard," he told reuters during the signing ceremony here. venezuela's energy and mines minister arturo hernandez grisanti earlier described the agreement, under which pdvsa buys 50 pct of champlin's corpus christi refinery, as "one more step in the maturation and presence of our oil industry in world markets." union pacific chairman william cook said the agreement will be beneficial to both sides, combining a secure source of supply with a modern refinery and access to markets. "we are looking to a long-term relationship, and at a time of protectionist tendencies in the u.s. congress there are clear benefits to both sides," he said. adams said pdvsa crude would remain competitive even with an oil import fee because champlin had invested heavily over the years in adapingthe texas refinery to process venezuelan heavy crudes with coking and hydro-treating facilities and obtain a competitive product yield. "therefore while the danger of an oil import fee has been a consideration in the negotiations, and it remains to be seen what such a fee would represent, we do not foresee any impact on today's agreement," adams said. he said the refinery could run crude as heavy as venezuela's bolivar coastal field (bcf) 17 api without any difficultiesand would probably move over time to a heavier diet to take advantage of bigger margins. the refinery has a capacity to process up to 110,000 bpd of venezuelan high sulphur content heavy crude, with an 80-85 pct yield of white products. reuter
1	secretary of agriculture richard lyng will meet with representatives from major grain exporting companies today, and the subject of subsidized wheat to the soviet union will likely be discussed, an aide to lyng said. today's meeting, set to begin at 1500 est (2000 gmt), was scheduled at the request of the exporters, the aide said. "the eep (export enhancement program) is pretty obviously one of the things they (the exporters) want to talk about, but they haven't any agenda as far as i know," lyng's aide said. private industry export officials have met periodically with lyng to discuss farm policies and the export situation. whether this meeting will prompt any u.s. action on the issue of whether moscow will be offered export bonus wheat is uncertain, the aide said. "i don't know what they'll tell us that we don't already knwo, but we'll hear what they have to say," lyng's aide said. the usda official said that as far as he knows there has been no further action on offering the soviet union wheat under the eep. reuter
1	dry weather pushed further into south africa's orange free state's maize triangle in the week ended march 14, the joint agricultural weather facility of the u.s. agriculture and commerce departments said. in a summary of its weather and crop bulletin, the agency said scattered showers continued throughout transvaal, but dry pockets persisted in the northeast and south. temperatures average one to four degrees c above normal throughout all grain areas, stressing grain-filling corn in areas receiving lightest rainfall, it said. the agency said rainfall during february was near to above normal in most areas, but earlier periods of hot, dry weather reduced yield prospects in parts of the northern transvaal and southern orange free state. reuter
1	dry weather covered most european crop areas in the week ended march 14, except for those in southwestern france, southern italy, and greece, the joint agricultural weather facility of the u.s. agriculture and commerce departments said. in its international weather and crop sumary, the agency said mixed rain and snow covered greece. winter grains in england, france, and northern italy remained dormant. grains usuaually break dormancy in march. winter grains in eastern europe usually break dormancy in early april, it said. showers improved irrigation supplies in winter wheat areas of northern pakistan and northern india, it said. normally, wheat harvesting is well underwaty in central india and just beginnning to the north, ending in most areas by late april. showers improved irrigation supplies in southern india, reversing february's below-normal trend. summer rice is usually in or nearing reproduction in most southern areas, it said. in the philippines, most rainfall was restricted to the central islands, continuing february's drying trend in luzon and southern mindanao. locally heavy showers dotted indonesia and malaysia as rainfall generally decreased eastward through the islands. in february locally heavy showers may have caused flooding in java, it said. the second cnsecutive week of dry weather stressed moroccan winter grains, approaching teh heading stage, the agency said. light to moderate rain spread from northern thailand to northern vietnam as dry weather prevailed elsewhere in southeast asia. dry weather covered winter grain areas in western and central algeria, but soil moisture was likely adequate to meet crop demands, it said. light showers in eastern algeria and tunisia maintained adequate moisture for crop growth, it said. timely rains will be needed in the next several weeks as winter grains advance through the critical reproductive phase, the agency said. reuter
0	energy secretary john herrington said he may recommend to the white house that the domestic oil industry be given tax benefits to help it produce more oil and head off increasing u.s. dependence on foreign oil. he said also at a news conference that he would recommend to the white house that the fill rate of the strategic petroleum reserve be increased from its planned 35,000 barrels per day. the oil reserve fill rate capacity is 100,000 barrels a day. herrington said he had always advocated a greater fill rate for the petroleum reserve, but the rate had been kept down because of budgetary constraints. herrington did not disclose what tax incentives he might advocate, but u.s. officials have shown interest in tax benefits for oil and gas exploration and for research and development into new ways to extract oil which is now considered uneconomical to produce. he made the remarks in conjunction with the release of the energy department's study on oil's impact on national security. herrington said that before he disclosed what recommendations for tax benefits for the oil and gas industry he might make, he would raise the matter with the white house economic policy committee to see if the proposals to increase oil production made good tax policy. he said he would like to increase u.s. production by one mln barrels a day. the report said that by the end of the century the united states may be relying on foreign sources for 50 pct of its oil consumption, posing a serious economic and national security threat. reuter
0	wainco oil corp said it has completed a wildcat well on its grandmarais prspect in jefferson davis parish, la., which is currently producing at a rate of 1.1 mln cubic feet of gas and 40 barrels of condensate daily. the company said it has a 20 pct working interest in the well which is flowing from lower frion tweedel sand perforations between 10,104 and 10,110 feet. additional untested but possibly productive zones exist behind the pipe, it added. it said the remaining owners are privately held petroleum companies. reuter
0	a white house-ordered report said that growing u.s. reliance on foreign oil into the year 2000 could have potentially damaging implications for national security. the energy department study discusses several options to curb reliance on foreign oil, but makes no recommendations. president reagan and most congressmen have previously ruled out a tax on foreign oil as a way to curb imports and to help the depressed domestic oil industry. energy secretary john herrington said in a statement that "although we have made gains in energy security in the last six years, this report shows that there is justification for national concern both over declining competitiveness of our domestic oil and gas industry and over rising oil imports." the report said imports last year were 33 pct of u.s. consumption and by the mid-1990s could rise to 50 pct. among the report's options to ease u.s. reliance on foreign oil are several already advocated by the reagan administration. president reagan ordered the study last september, citing a determination that the country never again become captive to a foreign oil cartel, referring to the opec-led oil shortages and sharp prices increases of the 1970s. the report said an import fee would raise prices and help make it economical for u.s. oil firms to find and produce new oil, as well as to cut imports, but on the whole the tax would depress the nation's economy. the study was outlined in a new york times report today. reuter
0	opec believes world oil prices should be set around a fixed average price of 18 dlrs a barrel, oapec assistant general secretary abdelaziz al-wattari said today. in a speech to a european community (ec)/oapec/opec seminar in luxembourg released here, al-wattari said: "opec believes ...the world energy trade should be kept without restrictions and should be built around a fixed average price of 18 dlrs." but he warned that defense of the 18 dlr a barrel level had caused hardship for opec countries, who had been forced to curtail production, and he warned that such cutbacks by opec states could not be sustained in some cases. "for opec to stabilize the world oil price at what is now considered the optimal level of 18 dlrs a barrel, its member countries have had to undergo severe hardship in curtailing production," al-wattari said. "such cutbacks ... cannot, in certain cases, be sustained," al-wattari said. as well as financial and marketing pressures, some states depended on associated gas output for domestic use and oil cutbacks had left insufficient gas supplies, he added. al-wattari noted that total opec output was below the organization's agreed ceiling for all member countries in february, although this had meant sacrifices. the effect of these sacrifices meant that market stability, though restored to a good level, was still under pressure, al-wattari said. "a lasting stability in the world market requires a wider scope of international cooperation," he added. he said some non-opec oil producing countries had shown a political willingness after 1986 to cooperate with opec. but although cutbacks announced by these states were politically significant and welcomed by opec, they were insufficient in terms of volume, he added. "the overall majority of non-opec producers have not responded sufficiently to opec's calls for supply regulation," he said. al-wattari said an 18 dlr a barrel price was optimal as it allowed investment in the oil industry outside opec to continue, while not generating excessive cash flow for otherwise unviable high-cost areas outside opec. such a price would no longer encourage protectionist measures, he added. fadhil al-chalabi, opec deputy secretary general, also addressing the seminar, added that discipline was still needed to prevent violent fluctuations in the oil market. cooperation between arab states and europe was advantageous for both sides, al-chalabi said, adding he hoped cooperation would ultimately lead to full-fledged euro-arab dialogue. reuter
0	venezuela has still to work out final details of its plan to supply ecuador with 50,000 barrels per day of crude oil to compensate that country for lost exports caused by earthquake damage, a senior petroleos de venezuela (pdvsa) official said. "we have yet to finalize details on how the compensation will be carried out and how opec production quotas will be affected," he said during the signing of a joint venture deal with union pacific corp today. he said an agreement was initialled on a visit last week by ecuador's deputy energy minister fernando santos alvite. he pointed out that there are some contractual points to be considered. venezuela, possibly unique among oil exporters, requires its clients to sign final destination clauses to ensure its oil is not resold on the spot market. ecuador's oil minister javier espinosa was quoted today as saying venezuela will export the oil on ecuador's account and remit the revenues to quito. ecuador would pay back the oil at a rate of 35,000 bpd. he said venezuela's oil would be traded through ecuadorean state oil company cepe, but the pdvsa official said the company never allows third parties to trade its oil. reuter
0	the u.k. government forecasts that oil revenues will fall to four billion stg in the fiscal year 1987/88, from 4.75 billion in 1986/87 and 11.5 billion in 1985/86. the forecast came in the treasury's financial statement and budget report issued after the chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson's annual budget statement to parliament. the government is assuming the price of oil will average 15 dlrs a barrel, in line with its earlier forecasts, and its oil revenue calculation is based on an exchange rate remaining close to current levels, the treasury document said. the treasury said the 1987/88 oil revenue shortfall will reflect the oil price fall of 1986, as north sea corporation tax is paid after a time lag. the statement calculated that a one dlr a barrel difference in oil prices this year will change revenue by about 350 mln stg for the current fiscal year, and 400 mln stg in a full year. oil production is forecast to fall slightly in 1987, according to the statement. a change in one mln tonnes in production would alter revenue by about 45 mln stg in 1987/88 and 50 mln stg in a full year, it added. total general government receipts for 1986/87 are now estimated to be 159.2 billion stg, 2.75 billion more than the 1986 budget forecasts and above the autumn statement forecasts, despite a shortfall of 1.25 billlion in oil receipts. additional non-north sea corporation tax of 1.75 billion stg and vat of 750 mln stg account for the bulk of the overshoot. total general government receipts were forecast to rise to 168.8 billion stg in fiscal 1987/88, and among the main items, besides diminishing oil revenues, were projected income tax of 40 billion stg, up from 38.4 billion in the current year. non-north sea corporation tax is forecast to bring in 13.5 billion stg in 1987/88, after the revised 11.2 billion in 1986/87, and vat revenue should amount to 23.3 billion, compared with upwardly revised estimated 21.5 billion this fiscal year. the general government expenditure for the coming fiscal year is expected to total 173.5 billion stg, up from a revised 164.9 billion in the current year. a repayment of 800 mln on public corporations' market and overseas borrowings is forecast to bring the total public sector borrowing requirement down to 3.9 billion stg in 1987/88, from this year's revised 4.1 billion, the treasury said. reuter
0	opec believes world oil prices should be set around a fixed average price of 18 dlrs a barrel, oapec assistant general secretary abdelaziz al-wattari said. in a speech to a european community/oapec/opec seminar in luxembourg released here, al-wattari said, "opec believes ...the world energy trade should be kept without restrictions and should be built around a fixed average price of 18 dlrs." al-wattari noted that total opec output was below the organization's agreed ceiling for all member countries in february, although this had meant sacrifices. the effect of these sacrifices meant that market stability, though restored to a good level, was still under pressure, al-wattari said. "a lasting stability in the world market requires a wider scope of international cooperation," he said. reuter
1	the house of representatives approved a bill to enable 1987 winter wheat and feedgrains farmers hit by midwestern flooding last year to receive at least 92 pct of their federal income support payments even if they did not plant. the one-time pilot 0/92 program, designed to assist farmers in kansas, oklahoma, michigan and parts of missouri, was passed by a 304-100 vote and sent to the senate. although the bill includes a narrow version of the 0/92 provision endorsed by the reagan administration, the u.s. agriculture department withheld its support from the measure. usda said the bill would discourage farmers from buying crop insurance and fall short of the administration's proposed broad-scale revision of farm programs. the bill would permit winter wheat producers prevented from planting their 1987 crop last fall to receive 92 pct of the deficiency payments they would have received. to be eligible, winter wheat farmers could not plant a different crop on that land this spring, although they could use the land for grazing or to plant hay. usda estimated this provision would save 30 mln dlrs, largely because of reduced crop forfeitures. the bill also would aid about 200 feedgrains producers along the missouri and mississippi rivers who were prevented from planting crops this year because of residual damage from last fall's flooding. in addition, the measure would require usda to make full payment to farmers eligible for emergency assistance approved by congress last fall. currently, because claims have outstripped the 400 mln dlrs in appropriated funds, usda plans to offer farmers in the region 74 cents for every dollar in disaster losses. the administration said it opposed the bill because, by expanding the 400 mln dlrs in disaster relief, it would thwart efforts to encourage farmers to buy crop insurance as an alternative to federal disaster assistance. usda also said the 0/92 provisions in the bill were narrower than the administration's proposal to offer the option to all major commodities and would produce insignificant savings. usda said the 0/92 option for 1987 winter wheat farmers would produce a net savings of about 30 mln dlrs, while the requirement to compensate fully disaster-struck farmers would cost about 135 mln dlrs, which must be appropriated by congress. the feedgrains provision would cost about five mln dlrs. usda estimated the overall cost of the bill to be 111 mln dlrs. in january the senate approved a bill that would make 1987 winter wheat farmers eligible for disaster assistance payments. but the senate bill would not offer the 0/92 option to wheat and feedgrains producers or raise the 400-mln dlr ceiling on the disaster assistance program. reuter
1	honduras has been authorized to buy about 75,000 tonnes of u.s. wheat, about 15,000 tonnes of u.s. corn, and about 6,000 tonnes of u.s. tallow under an existing pl 480 agreement, the u.s. agriculture department said. the department said it may buy the wheat, valued at 8.5 mln dlrs, the corn, valued at 1.5 mln, and the tallow, valued at 2.0 mln dlrs, between march 24 and august 31, 1987, and ship it from u.s. ports and/or canadian transshipment points by this september 30. the purchase authorizations cover the entire quantity provided under the agreement, signed march 11. reuter
1	from april through december 1986, the commodity credit corporation (ccc) issued 3.85 billion dlrs worth of generic certificates and about 1.8 billion had not been exchanged by january 1, 1987, the u.s. agriculture department said. the department said an additional 4.3 billion dlrs in certificates has been authorized for issuance during january-august, 1987. these certificates will provide ample free supplies of corn and wheat for the remainder of the crop year, the department said in a summary of its agricultural outlook report. freeing of stocks through certificates is making u.s. grain more competitive on world markets, it said. the department said last summer, for example, certificates were exchanged for 215 mln bushels of corn. this helped increase marketable supplies, so farm-level corn prices averaged about two dlrs per bushel -- somewhat lower than they would have otherwise. the lower prices probably led to an increase in usage of 40 to 50 mln bushels, it said. the department said government spending on farm programs in fiscal year 1987 is projected to fall half a billion dlrs from 1986's 25.8 billion dlrs. during 1988 and 1989, the cost escalation of the first half of the 1980's will reverse. if current policy remains in force, annual farm program spending by 1992 will be down from last year's record by more than eight billion dlrs, it said. the department said the president's budget proposals for 1988-1992 would cut farm program spending an additional 24 billion dlrs. in 1987, foreign economic growth is expected to remain close to 2.6 pct, the same as in 1986, but above the 2.4 pct average of 1980-86, it said. partially because of this improvement, u.s. export volume is expected to rise in fiscal 1987 for the frist time in seven years, the department said. reuter
0	sen. pete domenici, a main sponsor of legislation to set an oil import fee, said the administration's energy security report was based on flawed economic assumptions. the new mexico republican said the report did not take into account the last few weeks' drop in domestic oil production in its statement that an oil fee would raise prices for consumers. the report said a decline in economic growth as a result of the fee would reduce tax revenues. "a five dlr (per barrel) oil import fee will provide the stimulus to create jobs and investment, " and raise revenues, he said. reuter
1	upcoming changes being considered in the u.s. agriculture department's transportation and loan programs were outlined by a usda official today. addressing the annual meeting of the national grain and feed association, tom vongarlem, assistant deputy administrator for usda's state and county operations, said the following changes are under consideration by usda. termination of usda's transportation assistance program for wheat, barley and sorghum would be proposed this week. changes in usda's reserve rotation program are also under consideration, vongarlem said. while the department has not made any final decision, banning the use of pik and roll grain in reserve rotation is under heavy consideration, he said. changes in loan rates will definitely be looked at for next year's crop, he said, with the option of making soybean loans partially in cash and in certificates under consideration. vangarlem said he will definitely not extend the 1987 crop program signup, saying he sees no reason to do so at this time. he also said wheat will not be considered for a cash bonus under the conservation reserve program. reuter
1	there will be seven to eight billion dlrs of generic certificates on the market by the end of harvest, an agriculture department official said. the commodity credit corp will "depend heavily" on certificates to relieve storage problems this year, ralph klopfenstein, deputy administrator for commodity operations, usda, told participants at the national grain and feed association's annual convention. klopfenstein said that ccc will not be able to relocate grain in any significant amount this fall, so certificates will be used in various programs to relieve storage tightness. klopfenstein said certificates meet the goal of allowing prices to go below loan levels and providing usda with an inventory management tool. reuter
1	seven major u.s. farm groups took the unusual step of releasing a joint statement urging congressional leaders not to tinker with existing farm law. following meetings with house agriculture committee chairman kika de la garza (d-tex.) and senate agriculture committee chairman patrick leahy (d-vt.), the groups issued a statement saying lawmakers should "resist efforts to overhaul the 15-month-old law, which is operating in its first crop marketing year." the farm groups included the american farm bureau federation, american soybean association, national cattlemen's association, national corn growers association, national cotton council, national pork producers council and the u.s. rice producers legislative group. the statement said congress should not modify the 1985 farm bill "so the law might have its intended impact of making agriculture more competitive in export markets while at the same time maintaining farm income." "we strongly believe american farmers now need predictability and certainty in farm legislation in order to have any opportunity of making proper production and marketing decisions," the groups said. reuter
1	kansas republican congressman pat roberts urged the reagan administration to offer export enhancement program, eep, subsidies to the soviet union. speaking at a house foreign agriculture subcommittee, roberts said the u.s. has offered eep to china and poland, and should also include the soviet union. rep. roberts said there had been some talk that the issue of an eep to moscow had not been raised within the reagan administration recently because secretary of state george shultz was out of the country. "that very well may be the case," said tom kay, u.s. agriculture department foreign agricultural service administrator. however, kay told reuters later that his reply to roberts was not based on any particular knowledge. rep. roberts urged kay to convey to top officials of the usda that some in congress favor a wheat eep to moscow. "i'd be delighted to deliver the message," kay replied. earlier, kay had repeated agriculture secretary richard lyng's statement last week that "the door is not yet closed on an eep to the soviet union." reuter
0	distillate fuel stocks held in primary storage fell by 7.35 mln barrels in the week ended march 13 to 112.74 mln barrels from a revised 120.09 mln the previous week, the american petroleum institute (api) said. in its weekly statistical bulletin, the oil industry trade group said gasoline stocks fell 2.89 mln barrels to 248.44 mln barrels from a revised 251.33 mln, and crude oil stocks dropped 4.39 mln barrels to 325.13 mln from a revised 329.52 mln. it said residual fuel stocks fell 250,000 barrels to 35.73 mln from 35.98 mln barrels. api said refinery runs in the week rose to 11.80 mln barrels per day (bpd) from a revised 11.70 mln and refinery use of operating capacity was 75.7 pct, up from a revised 75.0 pct. crude oil imports in the week rose to 3.66 mln bpd from a revised 2.67 mln, api added. reuter
1	u.s. agriculture secretary richard lyng told representatives of several of the largest grain exporting firms and two farm organizations that he was not in a position to comment on their request that the reagan administration offer subsidized wheat to the soviet union, according to participants in today's meeting. "he (lyng) simply told us he was not in any position to talk about an eep (export enhancement program) initiative to the soviet union," said glen hofer, vice president of the national council of farmer cooperatives. another participant in the meeting, who asked not to be identified, said lyng was "unresponsive" to the group's request. participants in the meeting included cargill inc, continental grain co, louis dreyfus corp, union equity cooperative exchange, the national association of wheat growers, the national council of farmer cooperatives, among others, participants said. deputy agriculture secretary peter myers and under secretary daniel amstutz also attended the 30-minute meeting. hofer described lyng as "sympathetic but noncommittal," and said he thought he detected "a sense of frustration" on lyng's part at not being able to respond more positively to the group's urging. a grain industry representative said some participants were "puzzled" by usda's apparent reluctance to bring before the cabinet council an eep wheat offer to the soviets. "there is a feeling that there is more receptivity (to the idea) within the cabinet council now than there ever has been," this official, who asked not to be identified, said, referring to an eep wheat offer to the soviets. this official said there was not a significant amount of pressure being exerted by lawmakers on lyng to make an eep offer to moscow. reminded that senate agriculture committee chairman patrick leahy (d-vt.) had written two letters to lyng urging such an offer, this official said lyng had received virtually no phone calls from lawmakers on the subject. but hofer said other important matters at the white house, rather than an absence of political pressure, might have restrained lyng. reuter
1	trade sources here confirmed earlier tentative reports that bangladesh had bought 200,000 tonnes of optional origin feed wheat late last week and over the weekend. they said the continental grain co, of the united states, won the contract to supply the wheat from the ec and other parts of europe. it will supply 100,000 tonnes at a rate of 96.92 u.s. dlrs a tonne as a first consignment by april 7. it will supply the remaining 100,000 tonnes at a rate of 93.42 dlrs by april 16. reuter
0	kuwaiti oil minister sheikh ali al-khalifa al-sabah said in a newspaper interview that no opec member was exceeding oil production quotas allocated by the 13-nation group. sheikh ali told kuwait's daily al-anba "all opec states, without exception, are producing within the quotas allocated to them. some of them are producing less." some oil industry sources had said the united arab emirates, which had been generally been producing over its quota since opec returned to quotas last september, was still pumping more than its allotted amount in the first months of this year. ecuador had also publicly stated it was over its quota, but an earthquake early this month stopped that. iraq has rejected its quota, but oil sources say it may be having problems marketing at official prices all the oil it wants to sell. opec agreed in december to cut overall oil production by 7.25 pct to 15.8 mln barrels per day (bpd) for the first six months of this year and abide by fixed prices around 18 dlrs a barrel from february 1. reuter
1	the joint committee of taiwan's maize importers awarded contracts to five u.s. companies to supply a total of 462,000 tonnes of maize for delivery between may 10 and october 10, a committee spokesman said. cigra inc won a contract for a cargo of 56,000 tonnes, priced at 79.41 u.s. dlrs per tonne fob pacific northwest port, for delivery on july 5 and 20. continental grain co of new york received three shipments, totalling 143,000 tonnes, price ranging from 90.95 to 95.75 u.s. dlrs per tonne c and f taiwan for delivery between may 10 and october 10. cargill inc of minnesota took two shipments, totalling 83,000 tonnes priced between 92.00 and 92.93 u.s. dlrs per tonne c and f taiwan for september 5-20/september 10-25 delivery. united grain corp of oregon won three contracts to supply 93,000 tonnes priced from 92.32 to 93.19 u.s. dlrs per tonne c and f taiwan for delivery between may 10 and july 30. garnac grain co inc of new jersey received two shipments, totalling 87,000 tonnes at 88.90 to 92.29 u.s dlrs c and f taiwan for delivery between july 10 and august 10. reuter
0	texaco refining and marketing, an operating subsidiary of texaco inc, said it would cease to post crude oil prices for west texas crudes at the end of this month following a decision to discontinue purchase of crude oil from leases, a texaco spokesman in houston said. but it will continue to purchase quantities of u.s. and foreign crude oil for use in its refinery system, he added. the spokesman also said texaco trading and transport inc would continue to acquire and market texaco lease production as well as other lease production. the company will continue to post a louisiana price, it said. reuter
0	malaysia's state oil company petronas will cut oil production to 420,000 barrels per day (bpd) from may 1, trade sources said. malaysia cut its 510,000 bpd target output by 10 pct last september to support opec moves to boost prices, and the latest cut would reduce output by 17.5 pct from 1986's target level. petronas said in february that malaysia would maintain its 10 pct production cutback until mid-1987. however, the finance ministry said in its annual report that malaysia's crude oil output was expected to rise to an average 510,000 bpd in 1987. the ministry's forecast assumed average 1987 crude prices at 13 dlrs/barrel (bbl), but prices have risen enough to permit further production cutbacks, the sources said. malaysia's benchmark tapis blend fetched above 18 dlrs/bbl this year against a low of 10.50 dlrs/bbl in july, they said. traders said further reductions by malaysia would add to the tight spot availabilities of asian grades caused by reduced indonesian and chinese crude output. the cutback will also help malaysia maintain prices, as there is concern some buyers want to reduce term purchases due to the availability of cheaper alternatives, the sources said. in addition to term sales, petronas has been offering two to three 400,000 bbl spot cargoes of malaysian crude each month for sale through tender, the sources said. however, this practice is likely to dwindle given the reduced scale of production, they said.
0	energy secretary john herrington said he believes the reagan administration will review its decision to cut the fill rate of the strategic petroleum reserve because of a department report issued yesterday warning of growing u.s. dependence on oil imports. "as part of this study, i think the administration will take the fill rate under review," herrington said at a house energy subcommittee hearing. the administration has proposed cutting the fill rate from 75,000 barrels of oil per day to 35,000 bpd in fiscal year 1988 to save money. "my personal feeling is that is too low. i favor the maximum fill rate (of 100,000 bpd)," herrington said. reuter
1	the u.s. senate finance committee approved nonbinding resolutions urging the reagan administration oppose canada's ruling on u.s corn imports and a proposed new european community tax on vegetable oils. the resolutions, approved by voice vote, now will be sent to the senate floor were they are expected to be approved. the ec oils measure, offered by sen. john danforth, r-mo., urges the administration to take strong retaliatory measures if the tax is approved by the ec council of ministers. sen. david durenberger, r-minn., offered the corn amendment which urges the administration to file a complaint with the gatt if the u.s. believes the corn decision by canada was unjustified. canada recently imposed a permanent duty of 85 cents per bushel on u.s. corn imports. reuter
1	recent purchases of u.s. corn by the soviet union have skewed the domestic cash market by increasing the price difference between the premium price paid at the gulf export point and interior levels, cash grain dealers said. many dealers expect the usda will act soon to reduce the cash price premium at the gulf versus the interior -- which a dealer in davenport, iowa, said was roughly 20 pct wider than normal for this time of year at 25 cents a bushel -- by making it worthwhile for farmers to move grain. by lowering ascs county posted prices for corn, the usda could encourage farmers to engage in pik and roll corn sales, where pik certificates are used to redeem corn stored under the government price support loan program and then marketed. if the usda acts soon, as many dealers expect, the movement would break the gulf corn basis. "the usda has been using the gulf price to determine county posted prices," one dealer said. "it should be taking the average of the gulf price and the price in kansas city," which would more closely reflect the lower prices in the interior midwest. "but we don't know when they might do it," an ohio dealer said, which has created uncertainty in the market. the usda started the pik certificate program in an effort to free up surplus grain that otherwise would be forfeited to the government and remain off the market and in storage. yesterday, usda issued a report showing that only slightly more than 50 pct of the 3.85 billion dlrs in pik certificates it has issued to farmers (in lieu of cash payments) had to date been exchanged for grain. with several billion dlrs worth of additional pik certificates scheduled to be issued in the coming months, the usda would be well advised to encourage the exchange for grain by adjusting the ascs prices, cash grain dealers said. a byproduct of the soviet buying has been a sharp rise in barge freight costs quoted for carrying grain from the midwest to the export terminals, cash dealers said. freight from upper areas of the mississippi have risen nearly 50 pct in the past two weeks to over 150 pct of the original tariff price. the mild winter and early reopening of the mid-mississippi river this spring have also encouraged the firmer trend in barge freight, dealers noted. the higher transportation costs have served to depress interior corn basis levels, squeezing the margins obtained by the elevators feeding the gulf export market as well as discouraging farmer marketings, they said. "the gulf market overreacted to the soviet buying reports," which indicate the ussr has booked over two and perhaps as much as 4.0 mln tonnes of u.s. corn, one midwest cash grain trader said. but dealers anticipate that once the rumors subside, freight rates will settle back down because of the overall surplus of barges on the midwest river system. reuter
0	the white house said a proposal for a tax break for the oil industry would undergo review. spokesman marlin fitzwater said president reagan had no position on recommendations submitted by energy secretary john herrington to encourage investment in the hard hit domestic oil industry. but fitzwater noted that reagan did have a fundamental objection to tax rises and special tax breaks. he said that even though herrington's recommendation did not agree with existing policy, "we'll take a look at it." the review will be undertaken by the president's domestic policy council. herrington's proposal was reported by the washington post to have been made in a letter to reagan submitting a study that found the united states would be importing half of its oil by the 1990s, threatening u.s. national security. reuter
0	energy secretary john herrington said he will propose tax incentives to increase domestic oil and natural gas exploration and production to the reagan administration for consideration. "these options boost production, while avoiding the huge costs associated with proposals like an oil import fee," herrington told a house energy subcommittee hearing. "it is my intention to submit these proposals to the domestic policy council and the cabinet for consideration and review." he said proposals, including an increase in the oil depletion allowance and repeal of the windfall profits tax, should be revenue neutral and promote domestic production at the least cost to the economy and the taxpayers. "the goal of the administration policies is to increase domestic production. i would like to shoot for one mln barrels a year." the proposals were based on a doe study released yesterday warning the united states was threatened by a growing dependence on oil imports. "we project free world dependence on persian gulf oil at 65 pct by 1995," herrington said. he said it was too soon to say what the administration policy on oil tax incentives would be and indicated there would be opposition to tax changes. "of course, to move forward with these kinds of options would require reopening tax issues settled last year (in the tax reform bill) -- an approach which has not, in general, been favored by the administration. i think what we need is to debate this within the administration," he said. he said the proposals might raise gasoline prices. herrington did not specifically confirm a report in today's washington post that he had written to president reagan urging an increase in the oil depletion allowance. asked about the report by subcommittee members, herrington said various proposals were under consideration and would be debated within the administration to determine which would have the most benefits at the least cost. reuter
1	the commodity credit corporation (ccc) accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover the sale of 30,000 long tons of barley to israel, the u.s. agriculture department said. the department said the barley is for delivery april 15/may 15 and the bonus awarded was 41.24 dlrs per ton. the bonus was made to cargill, inc and will be paid in the form of commodities from ccc stocks. an additional 133,800 tons of u.s. barley are still available to israel under the export enhancement program announced june 17, 1986, it said. reuter
0	iraq said its warplanes had hit a vessel in the gulf off the iranian coast today, the third in the past 24 hours. a military spokesman told the iraqi news agency ina the latest attack was at 1250 gmt. it earlier reported strikes at 0650 gmt and at 1930 gmt last night. the planes "dealt accurate and effective blows" to the targets and returned safely to base. there was no immediate confirmation of the attacks from gulf shipping sources. the last confirmed iraqi attack was on on march 8, when an iranian tanker was hit by a missile south of iran's kharg island oil export terminal. reuter
0	the drastic cutbacks in u.s. drilling last year are rapidly deflating the united state's natural gas bubble, which could bring spot shortages in gas supplies next winter and a modest recovery in the oilpatch, industry analysts said. faltering deliverability of natural gas, a commodity that is difficult and costly to import in large quantities, could more than double the current u.s. rig count to near 2,000 by 1990, some analysts said. the need to lock in future supplies of gas for utilities and big industrial customers may also bring a resurgence of activity in the gulf of mexico's offshore waters where some of the nation's largest gas reserves are located. "we think an upturn in u.s. drilling is imminent," said james crandall, an analyst with salomon brothers inc. "many companies appear to be switching from oil to gas drilling because they're betting that the gas market will be back in balance in a year or two." the prospect of diminishing gas supplies is welcome news for drilling and oilfield service companies that barely survived last year's plunge in oil prices from about 30 dlrs a barrel to less than half that. today's relatively stable oil prices of about 18 dlrs a barrel are not enough to spur a return to the heady days of 1981 when the u.s. drilling rig count soared to a record high of more than 4,500 and oilfield roustabouts commanded premium wages. the latest weekly hughes tool co <ht> rig count, a barometer of the oil industry's health, showed 761 u.s. rigs active in what is traditionally the slowest time of the year. in 1986, the hughes rig count began the year at 1,915 but dived to a post-world war ii low of 663 in july as world oil prices experienced the sharpest decline in recent times. ike kerridge, a hughes economist, said "in 1986, the united states replaced only about 40 pct of the gas it used and that replacement rate won't be any better this year." he added, "we don't have the options we do with oil. imports of gas from canada are limited by pipeline capacity and importing liquefied natural gas on ships will not be feasible in the next 10 years because of the cost." only about 6 trillion cubic feet of additional gas reserves were discovered last year while u.s. consumption approached 16 trillion cubic feet, according to industry estimates. george gaspar, an oil analyst with robert w. baird and co agreed that the need for gas supplies would set the stage for a new cycle of gradual increases in u.s. drilling. "we anticipate that natural gas pipelines will need to dedicate to their systems new gas reserves for 1989 and 1990 supplies. that means new drilling programs must begin no later than mid-1988," gaspar said. gasper said he sees a new drilling cycle emerging that could last until 1992 and that he expects the average rig count to peak near 2,000 in december of 1989. much of the search for new gas reserves is likely to be conducted in the offshore waters of the gulf of mexico, where federal leases on unexplored areas will revert back to the government unless drilling begins in the next two or three years. some of the industry's biggest companies, such as exxon corp <xon>, mobil corp mob, and union texas petroleum have already indicated plans to increase spending for drilling later this year in the gulf of mexico, crandall said. for example, conoco inc, a dupont <dd> subsidiary, will spend 400 mln dlrs to build the gulf of mexico's deepest production platform, which will produce 50 mln cubic feet of gas per day. but t. boone pickens, who has acquired huge texas and kansas gas reserves for his mesa limited partnership <mlp> in recent months, is not convinced that the drilling industry is on the verge of a recovery. pickens predicts the u.s. rig count will soon drop below 600 and will not increase significantly until oil prices do. "the rigs won't go back to work until the price of oil gets above 30 dlrs a barrel," said pickens, 58, adding he did not expect to see the rig count top 2,000 again in his lifetime. tenneco inc <tgt>, one of the largest u.s. gas producers, is skeptical that a need for additional gas drilling exists. tenneco vice president joe foster said he did not expect significant increases in drilling for gas until the early 1990s when the u.s. gas reserves life will have declined to about seven years' supply. current spot market prices of about 1.50 dlrs per thousand cubic feet will need to rise to about three dlrs to spur reserve replacement, he said. reuter
1	the 1988 agriculture budget will have to be cut by an additional one to two billion dlrs, the chairman of a key house agriculture subcommittee said. implementation of a 0/92 program, a tightening up of the use of commodity certificates, and reconstitution of farms are possibilities that will be studied to reduce farm spending, said dan glickman, d-kans., chairman of the house agriculture subcommittee on wheat, soybeans and feedgrains. speaking at the annual meeting of the national grain and feed association, glickman said he learned this week from the house budget committee that the agriculture committee will have to reduce the fiscal year 1988 farm budget by up to two billion dlrs from the 30 billion dlrs level already approved. decisions on how to cut the farm budget will have to be made very quickly in order to make any impact on the fy 1988 budget, glickman added. glickman also said his committee will not approve usda's proposal to cut target prices by ten pct per year. "the administration's target price proposals are dead in the water," he said. to cut the budget, glickman said, "everthing is on the table," except those moves that would reduce farmers' income. glickman offered a list of possibilities that his committee will study in order to cut farm spending. implementation of a 0/92 program for 1987 winter wheat and 1988 feedgrains crops has been introduced by glickman, which he said would result in a 150-200 mln dlr savings for one year. tightening up on the use of generic (in-kind, or "pik') certificates will also be another option his committee will study, glickman said. while not committing himself for or against such action, he said lawmakers have to examine recent government findings which indicate certificates cost more than cash payments. glickman said rules for the reconstitution of farms and tightening up of the person definition for annual payment limitations is another option and could save 100-200 mln dlrs. he also said increasing acreage set-aside requirements by five pct for wheat and feedgrains at program sign-up was a move that could save about one billion dlrs, but added that he would not be in favor of such a change. glickman also said that the export enhancement program's, eep, spending authority of 1.5 billion dlrs is quickly being used up, and congress will have to decide whether to expand this program while making cuts in other areas. cuts in the eep program are unlikely, he said. "i don't see right now that the eep will be on the chopping block," glickman said. reuter
0	the u.s. oil and gas industry is in better health than it was a year ago, according to testimony given to the texas railroad commission at its annual state of the industry hearing today. the commission, which regulates the state's oil and gas industry, heard testimony from a number of high-level company executives reflecting a belief that the recent industry downturn had bottomed out. "the attitude expressed here today so far is a great deal more optimistic (than last year)," commissioner james e. (jim) nugent told reuters. "it reflects their (the executives) belief that they are seeing the bottom of the economic cycle," he added, "and with just a few reasonable breaks this industry can begin to move again." the energy industry was hard hit by the sharp drop in oil prices, which fell from around 30 dlrs a barrel in late 1985 to as low as 10 dlrs in mid-1986. prices have since steadied to around 18 dlrs a barrel. at the same time, a number of company executives testified that the nation's domestic exploration and production segment was still hurting and in need of government help. production costs are considerably higher in the united states than in such areas as the middle east and as prices fell many domestic producers were forced to shut down their operations. currently, there are only about 760 oil rigs operating in the united states compared with an average of nearly 2,000 in 1985. citing a study released yesterday by the department of energy, many said the falling production of domestic oil coupled with increasing u.s. demand, was leading to a growing dependency on imports, particularly from the politically volatile middle east. "in the u.s., 1986 petroleum production responded to lower prices, increasing about 2.5 pct, or 400,000 barrels per day (bpd)," said j.s. simon, general manager of the supply department at exxon corp <xon>, the nation's largest oil company. at the same time, simon said "u.s. oil production declined by 300,000 bpd, the first decline in several years," and "net petroleum imports were up 25 pct to 5.3 mln bpd." noting that while oil prices were expected to remain between 13 and 20 dlrs a barrel, depending on opec's ability to control production, simon said demand is expected to remain at 1986 levels, leading to "a significant amount of spare worldwide production capacity, in excess of 10 mln bpd." he said the surplus capacity would lead to continued volatility and called for "governmental and regulatory policies in support of the domestic petroleum industry." citing the costs recently imposed by the federal government through the 1986 tax code changes and "superfund" legislation, simon called for the repeal of the windfall profits tax, total decontrol of natural gas and improved access to federal lands for oil and gas exploration. simon did not mention an oil import fee, which many in the industry have called for as a way of building up the nation's domestic operations before imports reach such a level that national security might be compromised. in yesterday's report, the energy department said imports could make up 50 pct of u.s. demand by 1995, adding that persian gulf producers will provide as much as 65 pct of the free world's total oil consumption by that date. arguing that "oil is a political tool in every nation on earth," frank pitts, chairman of <pitts oil co>, today called for a variable oil import fee, among other measures, "before the treacherous foothold of the middle east is irreversible and our national security is compromised." royce wisenbaker, chairman of wisenbaker production co, agreed, saying that like many federal government programs that were set up with good intentions, it would probably turn into a "shambles." wisenbaker added that he was optimistic for the future. "for those of us who have managed to hold on, the worst is over," he said. roger hemminghaus, president of diamond shamrock refining and marketing co, said he was "enthusiastic about the future," adding that he expected "an increase in profitability by midyear." reuter
1	the soviet union's recent corn purchases from the united states could total as much as 3.5 mln tonnes, u.s. agriculture undersecretary daniel amstutz said. "we are not sure how much (soviets have bought) but we think it could be as high as 3.5 mln tonnes," amstutz told a house agriculture appropriations subcommittee. he added that china also will need to import more corn this year than earlier anticipated, but he gave no figures. reuter
0	new england electric system <nes> expects its cash construction spending to reach 205 mln dlrs this year, up from 188 mln dlrs in 1986, the utility said in material distributed at an analysts meeting. it said spending is expected to advance to 215 mln dlrs in 1988 and 220 mln dlrs in 1989. the utility said these totals exclude spending on new england hydro-transmission being built to import electricity from quebec hydro. new england electric is the operator of this venture as well as owning 51 pct of the project. the venture expects to spend 65 mln dlr this year, 105 mln dlrs next year and 125 mln dlrs in 1989 to build transmission lines from northern quebec into new england, the utility said. new england electric said internally generated funds will cover all of its power plant construction costs this year and 65 pct of the 108 mln dlrs its retail distribution units plan to spend in 1987. the company said it also expects to spend 60 mln dlrs on its oil and gas activities this year, adding internally generated funds are expected to provide 85 pct of this total. new england electric said it plans to issue 30 mln dlrs worth of pollution control bonds in 1987 and retire additional higher cost preferred stock. its granite state electric unit plans to issue five mln dlrs of long term notes early this year as well. the company said it does not plan to offer common shares this year or in the foreseeable future, but expects to raise about 40 mln dlrs in equity through the sale of stock under its dividend reinvestment plan and employee share plans. president samuel huntington told the analysts the construction spending projection is based on the expectation that demand for electricity in the new england electric system will grow about two pct a year for the next 15 years. however, the utility cannot ignore the potential for sharper growth, he said, pointing out that demand was up 5.2 pct in 1986 and 4.7 pct per year in the past four years. he attributed this growth to declining electricity prices and a strong new england economy. huntington said new england elecetric has "all but rejected new coal fired plants" to supply additional power. he said the most attractive new power supplies are those with short lead times which can be built in modules. later, vice president glenn schleede said the utility is looking at gas-fired, combined cycle generating units to supply most of its new power needs, but has not rejected coal-fired fluidized bed units. he explained that fluidized bed technology is available in modular units, adding that huntington was referring to the traditional coal-fired plant which burns pulverized coal. reuter
1	the national association of wheat growers, nawg, board of directors is scheduled to meet secretary of state george schultz and undersecretary of state allen wallis to discuss the department's current role in farm trade policy, the association said. nawg president jim miller said in a statement that the organization wanted to convey to secretary schultz the importance that exports hold for u.s. agriculture and the degree to which farmers are dependent upon favorable state department trade policies to remain profitable. "foreign policy decisions of the u.s. state department have in the past severely hampered our efforts to move our product to overseas markets," he said. miller noted secretary schultz is scheduled to meet next month with representatives of the soviet union, and the nawg "wanted to be certain the secretary was aware of our concerns regarding the reopening of wheat trade with the soviet union." the annual spring nawg board of directors meeting is held in washington to allow grower-leaders from around the country to meet with their state congressional delegations and members of the executive branch. the purpose is to discuss the current situation for producing and marketing wheat and help set the legislative and regulatory agenda for the coming year, the nawg statement said. reuter
0	energy secretary john herrington said he will propose tax incentives to increase domestic oil and natural gas exploration and production to the reagan administration for consideration. "these options boost production, while avoiding the huge costs associated with proposals like an oil import fee," herrington told a house energy subcommittee hearing. "it is my intention to submit these proposals to the domestic policy council and the cabinet for consideration and review." "the goal of the administration policies is to increase domestic production. i would like to shoot for one mln barrels a day," he said. the proposals were based on a doe study released yesterday warning the united states was threatened by a growing dependence on oil imports. "we project free world dependence on persian gulf oil at 65 pct by 1995," herrington said. reuter
1	jamaica has been authorized to purchase about 56,000 tonnes of u.s. wheat under an existing pl 480 agreement, the u.s. agriculture department said. it may buy the wheat, valued at 7.0 mln dlrs, between march 25 and august 341 and ship it from u.s. ports and/or canadian transshipment points by september 30, 1987. reuter
0	mexico's proven reserves of liquid hydrocarbons at end-1986 were 70 billion barrels, slightly down from 70.9 billion a year ago and 71.75 billion in 1984, the state oil company petroleos mexicanos (pemex) announced. reserves were just 5.77 billion barrels in 1974, rose sharply to 40.19 billion in 1978 and flattened out at 72 billion in both 1981 and 1982. in its annual report, pemex said average crude output in 1986 was 2.43 mln barrels per day, 202,000 bpd down on 1985. average exports were 1.29 mln bpd, down from 1.44 mln bpd. the company did not say what percentage of hydrocarbons was crude oil, but has previouly said it was about 48 pct. natural gas output in 1986 was 3.43 billion cubic feet per day, down from 3.6 billion in 1985. due mainly to the fall in oil prices to around 12 dlrs from 25 dlrs in the year, 58 wells, both exploratory and production, were suspended, 38 of them in less productive areas than the offshore campeche fields which accounted for 64 pct of production. reuter
0	esso saf <essf.pa>, the french subsidiary of exxon corp <xon>, said it had no immediate plans to shut down one of its two refineries. exxon's new president lee r. raymond said earlier that it could decide to close a french refinery. an esso saf spokesman said a closure was a hypothesis that depended on the evolution of the market and refineries' ability to make money. he said port jerome west of paris and fos sur mer on the mediterranean had benefitted from new investment over 1985-86 and had last year broken even after stock losses. the port jerome refinery has an annual production capacity of seven mln tonnes while fos sur mer's is five mln, the spokesman added. industry sources said the easiest plant to dispose of would be fos sur mer because it is a single refinery, while the port jerome refinery is attached to a wider complex comprising a petrochemical plant and a lubricant production plant. raymond was quoted as saying in a published interview that exxon was reviewing its worldwide refinery operations and might decide to close one of its french refineries. reuter
0	the u.s. congress and the oil industry are deeply divided on ways the government should assist the industry, hurt by the sharp fall in oil prices, and the subsequent growth in oil imports, industry analysts said. "the industry is deeply divided between those who support an oil tariff and those who believe tax incentives are better," said daniel yergin, director of cambridge energy research associates, which recently completed a survey of the u.s. congress on energy issues. yergin said he saw mounting support within congress for tax incentives rather than an oil tariff or import fee. today u.s. energy secretary john herington said he will propose tax incentives to increase edomestic oil and natural gas exploration and production to the reagan administration for consideration. white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said the proposal would be reviewed. herrington said, "i would like to shoot for one mln barrels a day (addition) to u.s. production." u.s. oil output was off to 8.4 mln bpd in the week of march 13, down six pct from last year, the american petroleum institute said. oil industry analysts have forecast oil prices to average about 18 dlrs a barrel for the year and many believe that a move above that level will be unlikey for the near term. paul mlotok, oil analyst for salomon brothers inc said that "even with the rise in prices for the last week or two we've only altered our average price scenerio to about 17.50 dlrs for the year." analysts said that at that price renewed drilling and exploration to reverse the decline in u.s. crude oil output will not take place as the companies are waiting for stable prices over 20 dlrs to renew exploration. john lichtblau, president of the petroleum industry research foundation inc in new york in recent testimony to congress said "the continuing decline in u.s. oil production is virtually inevitable under any realistic price scenario. but the future rate of decline is very much a function of world oil prices and u.s. government policy." lichtbalu said that tax breaks could be used to raise oil production but would only work over time. "lowering the producing industry's tax burden would probably be a slower stimulant (to output) than a price increase but would not raise energy costs." lichtblau said. but the small independent oil companies who do much of the drilling in the u.s. are looking for the more immediate relief which could be brought on by an oil import fee. ronald tappmeyer, president of the international association of drilling contractors, said, "the members of our trade asssociation are convinced that only a variable oil import fee that sets a minimum price trigger can protect our nation." the association represents some 1,300 drilling and oil service companies. the cera survey of congress shows that the oil import fee will face a stiff uphill battle. yergin said that the poll which was conducted in january by a former congressman, orval hansen, showed support for the oil import fee from 22 pct of the congressmen surveyed largely as a means of protecting the domestic petroleum industry. at the same time 48 pct of the congressmen surveyed opposed the fee with the respondents saying the tariff would hurt consumers and some regional interests. but 80 pct of the sample said support for a fee could grow if production continued to fall and imports to rise. yergin said that imports above 50 pct of u.s. requirements "is a critical, symbolic level. if they (imports) move above that level, a fee may not be legislated but there will certainly be pressure for some form of action." but lichtblau, in a telephone interview, said, "a 50 pct rate of import dependency is not likely to happen before 1990. in 1986 u.s. oil imports rose to 33 pct of u.s. energy requirements and shopuld be about 34 pct in 1987, he added. reuter
1	asked what the u.s. state department's policy is on offering subsidized wheat to moscow, secretary of state george shultz told a group of farm leaders that u.s. products must be competitive in the world market. "if we are going to sell our products, whatever they may be, wheat or anything else, then we have to meet the market," shultz told the board of directors for the national association of wheat growers. "we have to be competitive. it's ridiculous to say that somebody is going to buy your product if they can get the same thing at a lower price somewhere else. they just aren't," he said. "that is our approach in the negotiations with the soviets, and it must be our approach as we look at the american farm program and try to figure out what we should do to make it better," shultz told the wheat growers. schultz said that while he does not favor a situation that would allow the soviet housewife to buy food cheaper than the american housewife, he realizes the importance of american agricultural products being competitively priced. speculation has been in the market for some time that the united states is considering offering wheat to the soviet union at subsidized prices. soviet officials have said they would buy u.s. wheat if it were competitively priced. agriculture department officials have declined to take any official position on the issue. reuter
1	argentine grain growers reduced their estimates for maize and soybean production in the current harvest in the week to yesterday, trade sources said. soybean production for 1986/87 is now estimated to reach between 7.7 and eight mln tonnes, versus 7.8 to 8.2 mln tonnes estimated a week ago and eight to 8.4 mln tonnes estimated in mid-february. but even the lowest of those estimates would be 8.5 to 12.7 pct greater than last year's total of 7.1 mln tonnes, according to official figures, and would be a new record. the total area planted with soybeans for this harvest was a record 3.7 to 3.8 mln hectares and increased 10.8 to 13.8 pct compared to the 3.3 mln hectares planted last year. the change in yield estimates is due to very high temperatures and inadequate rainfall since early in the year in the soybean-producing belt of southern cordoba and santa fe and northern buenos aires province. the heat and lack of rain combined to leave many soybean pods empty, especially in cordoba. intense rains in recent weeks did not affect crops, since rainfall was slight in most main soybean-producing areas. rains in the week to yesterday were isolated and weak in buenos aires province, totalling between one and 10 mm. there was no recorded rain in other grain-producing provinces. with clear skies and seasonable temperatures, fields were able to dry in areas that had received heavy rains in recent weeks, allowing growers to accelerate the pace of maize, sunflower and sorghum harvesting. crops were considered in generally good condition, though it is still too early to judge whether the intense rains of recent weeks caused any long-term damage. the maize harvest advanced to between 20 and 22 pct of the total area planted, compared to 13 to 15 pct a week ago. total area planted with maize for this harvest stood at 3.58 to 3.78 mln hectares, down two to seven pct from the 3.85 mln hectares planted in the previous harvest. total production for the current maize harvest is expected to reach between 9.9 and 10.1 mln tonnes, versus 10 to 10.2 mln tonnes estimated a week ago. the new figure is 21.1 to 22.7 pct lower than the 12.8 mln tonnes produced in the last harvest, according to official figures. the sunflower harvest advanced to between 20 and 23 pct of total planted area, versus 15 to 18 pct a week ago. total area planted with sunflower for this harvest was two to 2.2 mln hectares, or 29.9 to 36.3 pct lower than the record 3.14 mln hectares planted in the 1985/86 harvest. the current harvest's volume was again expected to be between 2.3 and 2.6 mln tonnes, or 34.1 to 41.5 pct lower than last harvest's record 4.1 mln tonnes. yields varied widely from area to area, and growers feared that heavy rains in recent weeks may have taken their toll on crops and, consequently, on total production volume. the sorghum harvest reached between nine and 11 pct of total planted area, compared to four to six pct a week ago. total area planted with sorghum stood at between 1.2 and 1.3 mln hectares, or 10.3 to 15.2 pct lower than the 1.4 mln hectares planted in the previous harvest. estimates for total sorghum production this harvest remained at 3.2 to 3.5 mln tonnes again this week, or 16.7 to 22 pct lower than last harvest's total volume of 4.1 to 4.2 mln tonnes. reuter
0	u.s. oil demand as measured by products supplied rose 2.3 pct in the four weeks ended march 13 to 16.49 mln barrels per day (bpd) from 16.11 mln in the same period a year ago, the energy information administration (eia) said. in its weekly petroleum status report, the energy department agency said distillate demand was up 2.9 pct in the period to 3.43 mln bpd from 3.33 mln a year earlier. gasoline demand averaged 6.93 mln bpd, up 4.0 pct from 6.67 mln last year, while residual fuel demand was 1.31 mln bpd, off 7.9 pct from 1.42 mln, the eia said. domestic crude oil production was estimated at 8.36 mln bpd, down 8.1 pct from 9.10 mln a year ago, and gross daily crude imports (excluding those for the spr) averaged 3.70 mln bpd, up 24.8 pct from 2.96 mln, the eia said. refinery crude runs in the four weeks were 11.92 mln bpd, up 1.0 pct from 11.80 mln a year earlier, it said. year-to-date figures will not become available until march 26 when eia's petroleum supply monthly data for january 1987 becomes available, the agency said. reuter
1	taiwan overnight bought 450,000 tonnes of u.s. number two corn, 14.5 pct moisture, for gulf and west coast shipment in 11 cargoes between may and october, private export sources said. gulf shipment ranged in prices from 75.17 to 78.45 dlrs per tonne stowed and trimmed, fob euqivalent, and west coast shipments ranged from 79.41 to 81.02 dlrs per tonne, stowed and trimmed, fob equivalent, they said. reuter
1	results were awaited on egypt's tender today for 200,000 tonnes of u.s. soft or white wheat for april shipment under pl 480, private export sources said. reuter
1	u.s. agriculture undersecretary daniel amstutz indicated the world wheat supply/demand situation has become more bullish recently because of developments in the world market and increased consumption. speaking to a house agriculture appropriations subcommittee, amstutz cited three factors which have improved the wheat outlook. he said world consumption of wheat is increasing by about 20 mln tonnes this year, primarily for feed use. there are also reports from australia, canada and argentina that plantings have been reduced, he said. furthermore, he cited reports of greater than normal winterkill in the soviet union. "it seems reasonable to expect production and consumption to be in far better balance than a year ago," amstutz said. reuter
0	argentina's total oil and gas production fell 9.4 pct in february to 2.78 mln cubic metres from january's total of 3.11 mln cubic metres, the state oil company yacimientos petroliferos fiscales (ypf) reported. a ypf statement blamed the drop on momentary problems owing to the summer season but gave no further details. february's production figure fell slightly short of ypf's target figure of 2.90 mln cubic metres. oil production totalled 1.76 mln cubic metres last month and natural gas production 1.02 mln cubic metres, down from 1.95 and 1.15 mln cubic metres in january, respectively. reuter
1	brazil rejected all offers at tonight's wheat tender, a brazilian wheat board spokesman said. he said no date had been set for the next tender. reuter
0	<canterra energy ltd> said it will drill an exploratory well on the scotian shelf, about 280 kilometers east-southeast of halifax, nova scotia. drilling will begin in late april 1987 in 61 meters of water and will be drilled to a total depth of 3,500 meters, canterra said. canterra will operate the well and has a 39 pct interest in it. <petro-canada inc> has 26 pct, <trillium exploration corp> has 20 pct and <nova scotia resources (ventures) ltd> has 15 pct. reuter
1	the taiwan flour mills association will import 81,000 tonnes of wheat from canada in calendar 1987, unchanged from the 1986 level, an association spokesman told reuters. he said the total will be delivered in three shipments. the first will be shipped to taiwan between march 20 and april 20 and the other two will be made later this year, he said. the total wheat import target this year has been set at 700,000 tonnes, down from actual imports of 758,770 last year. most of taiwan's wheat imports come from the u.s., the spokesman said. reuter
1	the australian wheat board (awb) expects to sell about 900,000 tonnes of wheat to the japanese food agency this year after renewing its annual supply agreement, awb general manager ron paice said. under the agreement, the awb makes the wheat available and sells into the food agency's regular tenders, he said in a statement. he noted that the board has sold more than three mln tonnes to japan in the past three years. reuter
0	higher world oil prices, coupled with a new realism ushered in by austerity, could lift saudi arabia's economy after five years of falling revenue and growing budget deficits, bankers and diplomats said. the months ahead will prove critical as the government attempts a balancing act between defending higher oil prices and fostering recovery through a bigger role for the private sector. economists said oil earnings could recover this year to about 20 billion dlrs and nominal gross domestic product could grow by about three pct, the first rise since 1982. but the economists said this will be possible only if the organisation of petroleum exporting countries (opec) succeeds in defending world oil prices and if saudi arabia is not forced to curtail output for too long. saudi arabia is now keeping production down to defend opec's newly-established 18 dlr a barrel benchmark price. oil minister hisham nazer told reuters output is running at about three mln barrels per day (bpd), well down on saudi arabia's opec quota of 4.13 mln set for the first half of 1987. king fahd has stamped his personal authority on opec's new-found determination to defend prices in a move western diplomats believe underlines the kingdom's need to secure a stable source of income for its economy. saudi arabia, still the world's largest oil exporter, is a hugely wealthy country. but the past five years of declining revenue have taken their toll. economists estimate gross domestic product fell 10 pct last year and 8.6 pct in 1985. oil revenue last year, when prices briefly dipped below 10 dlrs per barrel, probably totalled no more than 17.5 billion dlrs, compared to a peak 101.8 billion in 1981. "austerity is still the watchword, but saudi arabia will not be allowed to dip further into recession ... the saudis can afford to draw down reserves temporarily to offset the worst effects," a diplomat said. in the short-term, the kingdom can lessen the impact of lower oil revenues and a gaping budget deficit by drawing on foreign reserves, still put at around 100 billion dlrs. but such a policy cannot be pursued indefinitely. bankers and diplomats said it would amount to fiscal recklessness in the longer term. it also increases the dominance of the public sector at a time when the government is publicly urging private enterprise to take over the lead role in the economy. bankers and diplomats said the government is well aware of the risks attached to this policy but is determined to "tough it out" on the oil front even if that means a short-term depletion of reserves. the 1987 budget deficit is targetted at a huge 52.7 billion riyals or 31 pct of total outlay. the budget explicitly recognises the need to draw down reserves while foreign borrowing has been ruled out. commerce minister suleiman abdulaziz al-salim told saudi businessmen this week the government had carefully considered the need to stimulate the economy when drawing up its budget plans late last year. "it therefore took the bold step of withdrawing more than 50 billion riyals from its reserves and pumping it into the economy," he said. reserves were built up during the late 1970's and early 1980's when saudi arabia's breakneck pace of construction and tales of high spending became legendary. the shrinking economy has wrought huge changes in the fabric of the kingdom's private sector where poor management had gone unpunished in the easy days of the oil boom. modern techniques of cost control have been introduced, markets expanded and outsized labour forces and inventories cut back. the expatriate workforce has fallen sharply. the number of new bankruptcies appears to be declining but saudi banks, hit hard by non-performing loans to the corporate sector, have become highly selective in extending new credit. government moves to encourage lending and investigate company complaints about late public sector contract payments could boost confidence but recession has slowed the nation's industrialisation program and discouraged foreign investment. private wealth is still very high and banks report more and more cash being placed on deposit. as saudi arabia attempts to shift the weight of economic development from the public to the private sector, one of the biggest tasks will be to convince businessmen to channel personal savings into industrial projects within the kingdom and refrain from the temptation to invest abroad. reuter
1	the results of a controversial study of farm subsidies conducted by the paris-based organisation for economic cooperation and development, oecd, show japan has the highest agriculture subsidies in the world, and that dairy farmers benefit more than any other commodity producers from subsidies. results of the study, which has not been released by oecd because of objections from some countries, were provided to reuters by officials of several countries on condition they not be identified. the oecd study calculates the level of farm subsidies for the years 1979-81 using a new measure called the producer subsidy equivalent, pse. the study shows that on dairy products japan's pse, or the amount of aid to farmers expressed as a percentage, averaged 83.3 pct over 1979-81, with the european community at 68.8 pct and the united states 48.2 pct. for wheat japan's pse averaged 95.8 pct, the ec 28.1 and the u.s. 17.2. japan's rice pse was 68.8 pct compared to the ec 13.6 and the u.s. 5.4 pct, the oecd calculations show. in coarse grains, japan's subsidies reached 107.1 pct compared with 27.9 pct for the ec and 13.1 pct for the u.s. japan's beef subsidy was 54.9 pct versus 52.7 pct for the ec and 9.5 pct for the u.s., oecd concluded. for sugar, japan's pse was 48.4 pct versus 27.9 pct in the ec and 13.1 pct for the u.s., the study shows. the oecd calculated farm subsidies for other industrial countries such as canada, australia and new zealand but in most cases the results were much lower than for the u.s., ec and japan, the sources said. subsidies in argentina and brazil, two major developing country producers of commodities, were not included in the oecd work. officials said they hope to persuade reluctant countries to release the study soon, perhaps coinciding with the oecd ministerial meeting in paris during may. some officials hope the oecd results will be used as a basis for negotiations during the uruguay round of global trade talks now underway in geneva. british agriculture minister michael jopling during a visit to washington this week endorsed the oecd work as a starting point for the uruguay round negotiations on agriculture. he said the pse calculations provide a tool to negotiate down domestic farm support levels, which are a major cause of the present crisis in world agriculture. however, the oecd study results are controversial because they highlight the levels of assistance to farmers, officials familiar with the study said. the u.s. agriculture department's economic research service recently published a study of farm subsidies in an attempt to verify the oecd results and update them to 1982-84. in some cases the results were substantially different than the oecd's, in part because farm policies in both the u.s. and elsewhere had changed markedly by 1982-84 from the oecd base period of 1979-81, u.s. officials said. for example, the usda study found the united states subsidies to corn producers were higher in 1982-84, at 25 to 49 pct, than in the ec, at zero to nine pct. french maize producers association president marcel cazale, citing the result of the usda calculation for corn, told reporters last week that the united states subsidizes its farmers more than the ec. however, the sources said ec corn subsidies are probably higher than the u.s. now because of increases since 1984. officials of several countries have been asked to contribute data to oecd so that the study can be updated to 1985 subsidy levels, a much more relevant measure of the current world farm situation. the updated calculations, which may take several months to complete, are expected to show substantial increases in u.s. subsidy levels for sugar because the u.s. imposed restrictive import quotas in 1982 as aid to the domestic industry. u.s. subsidy levels also are increased by the 1985 farm bill, which sharply boosted government deficiency payments to grain farmers and applied a marketing loan for rice, officials added. reuter
0	<canadian roxy petroleum ltd> said a new oil discovery in the peerless lake area of north-central alberta is capable of flowing at over 1,000 barrels of oil a day from a lower zone and more than 1,500 barrels a day from a separate upper zone. canadian roxy has a 35 pct interest in the five-year royalty free well, known as the canadian roxy et al trout a14-8-89-3 w5m. texaco canada inc holds 25 pct, mlc oil and gas ltd 15 pct, northstar energy corp 13.5 pct and tricentrol oils ltd 11.5 pct. canadian roxy said drilling has started on a follow-up exploratory well about one mile northwest of the discovery well. the company said it holds a net 6,500 acres in the vicinity of the discovery and a seismic program is underway to evaluate further drilling opportunities. reuter
0	energy secretary john herrington said his proposed option to raise the oil depletion allowance to 27.5 pct was probably the most economically promising way to spur domestic production. the white house has said it would consider the option although it was generally opposed to any revisions in the new tax code. herrington told a meeting of the mid-continent oil and gas association that the higher depletion allowance on new oil and enhanced oil recovery would cost taxpayers about 200 mln dlrs a year. the option was one of many contained in a report on oil and the national security the energy department sent to the white house on tuesday. herrington said of the increased depletion allowance option: "that is one that could significantly increase production at a very low cost to the american taxpayer." he again rejected an oil import fee as far too costly to the overall u.s. economy. reuter
1	current interest by soviet charterers in taking panamax vessels on timecharter, mainly from the u.s. to carry grain, is seen as the chief factor behind the recent surge in values on the baltic international freight futures exchange (biffex), dealers said. futures soared through the 1,000 points barrier today for the first time in the spot position since the market opened in may 1985. however, the market tends to be nervous, with values some 100 points above the baltic freight index, which is calculated on spot physical rates. no specific figure has been put for soviet bookings but they have been sufficient to drain panamax tonnage (about 50,000 to 65,000 tonnes dw) from the u.s. gulf which would normally operate on the trip to japan, dealers said. "it appears that the chernobyl disaster had a worse effect on its (the soviet) grain harvest than reported," one said. freight rates on the gulf/japan grain route have subsequently been the main beneficiary of current chartering conditions, with very few, if any, panamax sized ships left for the remainder of this month in the gulf. rates have risen steadily for vessels loading next month. dealers said there is even talk that owners are considering taking older vessels out of lay-up to meet current demand. sentiment has also been aided by suggestions that chinese operators may be in the market for similar timecharter business later in the year, they said. they anticipate this would appear around june and it has prompted keen demand in the july biffex contract, despite it normally being a slack time in the shipping year. market sentiment has fluctuated in recent weeks. rates turned down as an earlier rise in bunker prices, which had supported the market at the start of the year, faltered but then recovered on the reported soviet interest. reuter
1	the u.s. agriculture department is proposing tighter federal standards setting allowable limits on insect infestations in grain shipments. the changes in the standards would include the following: -- establishing equal tolerances for the number of live insects in shipments of food grains, feed grains and oilseeds. -- revising the definition of "infested" to give equal value to all insects injurious to grain. -- establishing lower levels of infestations. in 1988, the infested level would be set at three or more live insects per representative sample (about 100 grams), in 1990 two or more insects, and in 1992 the final infestattion level would be set at one or more live insects per representative sample. -- revising the definition of sample grade by adding a limit of 10 live or dead insects per sample. -- revising the definition of sample grade for wheat by adding a limit of 32 insect-damaged kernels per 100 grams of wheat. the department asked for public comments on the proposals by april 17. reuter
1	the agricultural stabilization and conservation service (ascs) is seeking offers to process rough rice owned by the commodity credit corporation (ccc) and deliver about 27.0 mln pounds of milled rice for export shipment may 6-20 and may 21-june 5, an ascs spokesman said. offers must be received by 1300 cdt april 7, and successful offerors will be notified april 10. reuter
0	britoil plc's <btol.l> exploration expenditure for the u.k. in 1987 was likely to be only about a third of the level in 1986, though overseas expenditure would remain approximately the same, chief executive david walker said. he told reporters following the release of the company's 1986 figures that project expenditure would also remain at 1986 levels. u.k. project expenditure in 1986 rose to 208 mln stg from 184 mln while exploration expenditure dropped to 87 mln from 156 mln. overseas exploration fell to 28 mln from 58 mln in 1985. earlier, britoil posted a drop in pretax profit for 1986 to 134 mln stg from 759 mln in 1985, before an extraordinary charge of 50 mln stg on the company's u.s. assets. the results were slightly better than analysts forecast and the share firmed to 231p from 222p at last night's close. chairman sir philip shelbourne said the collapse in the oil price in 1986 had made the period extremely difficult but the company had come through remarkably well. provided the recovery in oil prices was maintained, the conditions would be right for a substantially improved performance this year. he added that the firmness of oil prices in march, when they were normally weaker, made him "a bit encouraged" about the prospects for future levels. walker added that britoil would feel confident if the price stayed within a band of 15 dlrs to 20 dlrs a barrel. britoil had received some 100 responses to its announcement of a desire to sell the assets and was asking for bids by the latter part of april. end-year reserves rose to 603 mln barrels of oil compared with 503 mln previously. however, walker noted that this included a revised definition of reserves. if 1985 figures were restated along the same lines, the reserve figure would show a drop from 720 mln barrels previously. gas reserves also eased to 3,568 billion cubic feet from a restated 3,660 billion.
1	the ec commission granted 25,000 tonnes of free market barley export licences at today's tender and 80,000 tonnes of french maize, grain traders said. the maximum export rebate for barley was set at 137.25 ecus and for maize at 129.75 ecus per tonne. all bids for wheat were rejected, they said. reuter
0	the american petroleum institute said that u.s. crude oil production in february declined 9.8 pct from year-ago levels to about 8.3 mln barrels a day. in its monthly report on u.s. oil supplies and stocks, api said that domestic demand for petroleum products, as measured by products supplied, continued to rise reaching 16.3 mln barrels a day in the month, up 1.5 pct from february 1986. api noted the drop in crude oil output coupled with a drop in natural gas liquids production, which was off 11 pct from february 1986 levels, represented a decline in u.s. production of more than one mln barrels a day. api said the decline in domestic production and the rise in demand brought petroleum imports to about six mln barrels a day in february, a 30.3 pct increase from last year's level. so far this year, api said growth in domestic demand, which was up 2.9 pct from last year's year-to-date level, has slowed in comparison to the accelerated growth in the last half of 1986. it said crude oil production for the first two months of 1987 was off 8.6 pct from the comparable year-ago period while crude imports were up 30.6 pct. reuter
1	a statement yesterday by secretary of state george shultz after he met with wheat growers that u.s. agricultural products must be competitively priced was significant in that he recognized the importance of the soviet market and the need for u.s. prices to be at world market levels, u.s. grain trade industry officials said. they said that shultz's comments, while not explicitly endorsing subsidized wheat sales to the ussr, were noteworthy because they were not negative towards such action. in response to a query on what the state department's position is on selling subsidized wheat to moscow, shultz told the leaders of the national association of wheat growers that prices must be competitive if the u.s. is going to trade. the soviet union, the world's largest grain importer, has bought no u.s. wheat for more than a year, complaining the price was far above world market levels. a u.s. offer last fall to sell the soviets lower-priced wheat through the export enhancement program, eep, was also rebuffed due to the price. shultz was said to be adamantly against the u.s. wheat offer last year and has been reported to be one of the major obstacles in making another subsidy overture to the soviet union, grain industry sources said. intense speculation the u.s. might make a fresh eep wheat offer to the soviets has boosted grain prices significantly in recent trading sessions. kansas city hard wheat futures rose another 2-1/4 cents by midday at 2.88-1/4 dlrs per bushel, while cbt march wheat was up 1-1/2 cents at 2.92-1/2 dlrs. "i'm not sure this is an about-face, but it's clearly a recognition that unless we're competitive, we won't sell to the soviet union," said a lobbyst for a major commodity group. "we have to be competitive. it's ridiculous to say that somebody is going to buy your product if they can get the same thing at a lower price somewhere else," shultz told the farm leaders. "that is our approach in negotiations with the soviets," he said. if those comments do signal that the state department is no longer opposed to the u.s. selling wheat to the ussr under eep, it certainly improves the chances for an eep wheat offer to moscow, an industry lobbyst said. national wheat grower's officials were taking a cautious attitude towards the secretary's comments. "his comments were not discouraging, but they didn't in our judgment promise any immediate action on eep," an official with the wheat group said. the wheat growers official noted, however, that "there is significance in that fact that we haven't seen any significant negative commentary on the idea of eep wheat to the soviets." in a meeting with exporters this week, secretary of agriculture richard lyng refused to comment on their request that the administration offer subsidized wheat to moscow, the officials said. an aide to usda undersecretary daniel amstutz, who is reported to be strongly opposed to eep wheat to the soviets, said that the shultz comments "are consistent with what he (shultz) has taught for years as an economist," but said they don't necessarily relate to the soviet union. amstutz could not be reached for comment, and an aide to lyng said lyng would not comment on shultz's statements. but trade sources were hopeful that the shultz comments may indicate some movement towards eep wheat to moscow. "if he didn't say no, then there's a chance. this is potentially a positive development," a commodity source said. reuter
1	the european community commission has decided to abolish a special tax of eight ecus per tonne imposed on exports of spanish maize, commission sources said. they said the tax, which applies to spanish sales to ec and non-ec countries alike, would no longer be required on exports from spanish ports south of valencia. the decision was taken at a meeting of the authority's cereals management committee today. the tax had been introduced last september at the same time as a subsidy of eight ecus per tonne was brought in for exports of maize to spain from other ec member countries. the aim of the tax was to prevent the maize imported into spain from the other ec states with the help of subsidies from being reexported back to them. the sources added that spain had received no answer from the committee to its request that tenders be opened for the sale to third countries of 450,000 tonnes of maize. the request will be considered at the committee's next meeting, the commission sources said. madrid estimates that it needs to import 1.7 mln tonnes of maize this year, while an ec-u.s. accord guarantees non-ec producer sales to spain of two mln tonnes of maize and 300,000 tonnes of sorghum annually for the next four years. reuter
0	the "cross field allowance" relief on petroleum revenue tax (prt) announced by u.k. chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson this week will favour smaller non-prt paying fields, according to stockbrokers wood mackenzie and co. the cross field allowance offsets up to 10 pct of qualifying spending on a new oil field against prt liability of other fields. it is restricted to new offshore developments outside the southern basin and yet to gain annex b approval. a report by the stockbrokers said that on a new field not paying prt due to its small size, the relief would directly benefit in prt saving on an existing field. "the cross field allowance will mainly benefit participators in those fields which have no prt liability," the report said, adding that the timing of development of such fields may be advanced. the government would in effect be subsidising these developments at 7.5 pct of capital expenditure before corporation tax, the report said. on fields likely to pay prt in the future, the benefit is of timing. although liabilities on other existing fields will be reduced immediately, liabilities on larger new fields will rise in the future due to the loss of offsets, it said. in a study on probable fields, the report said that when the rates of return are examined, the rise for a prt-paying field such as miller, the largest undeveloped oil field in the u.k. north sea, is from 18.7 to 19 pct, while the rise for a small non-prt paying field such as kittiwake is 15.9 to 17.9 pct. the report added that in fields which pay prt, there will be a cost in being able to have this early relief. not only will these costs be unavailable for offset against the field's future profits, but uplift of some 35 pct on these costs will be lost. thus, a saving of prt of 100 when field development starts will have to be matched by a rise in prt of 135 at a later time. reuter
1	the u.s. agriculture department said private u.s. exporters reported new sales of 900,000 tonnes of corn to the soviet union and 350,000 tonnes of corn switched from previously announced unknown destinations to the ussr. the corn is for delivery during the 1986/87 marketing year and under the fourth year of the u.s.-ussr long term grain supply agreement, the usda said. the department said exporters also reported corn sales of 143,000 tonnes for delivery to taiwan, with 56,000 tonnes for shipment in the 1986/87 season and the balance for shipment in the 1987/88 year. the marketing year for corn began september 1. sales of corn to the ussr for delivery during the fourth year of the agreement, which ends this september 30, now total 2.25 mln tonnes. reuter
0	amoco corp's petroleum liquids reserves total 2.42 billion barrels at the end of 1986, down from 2.77 billion a year earlier, but its natural gas reserves increased to 15.37 trillion cubic feet from 15.14 trillion, the company's annual report said. it said the drop in crude oil and natural gas liquid reserves reflected downward revisions of previous estimates caused by the sharp drop in oil prices last year. this accounted for 178 mln barrels of a worldwide downward revision of 188 mln barrels, with 158 mln barrels of the total revision occurring in the united states, the report said. amoco said there were upward revisions in the size of its worldwide gas reserves totalling 404 billion cubic feet last year, while it discovered 568 billion cubic feet and purchased 298 billion cubic feet of reserves. production of one trillion cubic feet offset much of these gains, the report said. all of the gas reserve purchases, as well as all of the 14 mln barrels of oil reserves bought in 1986, were in the united states, amoco said, noting it has spent 1.1 billion dlrs to acquire u.s. producing properties over the past three years. commenting on 1987, amoco said acquisitions "will be an integral part of our strategy, should reserves become available at attractive prices." the company said it expects "the marketing climate for natural gas to improve in 1987, which should provide the opportunity for amoco to expand sales. as prices and demand improve, we are poised to accelerate capital spending on our inventory of attractive opportunities." amoco previously announced a 1987 capital spending budget of 3.2 billion dlrs. such spending totaled 3.18 billion dlrs last year, down from 5.31 billion in 1985. reuter
1	secretary of state george shultz has decided not to oppose any u.s. wheat subsidy offer to the soviet union and has left the final decision on whether to sell subsidized wheat to moscow up to president reagan and the agriculture department, a state department official said. "shultz feels like he fought the battle against a subsidy last summer, and he's not going to the mat again. it's now basically the usda who has to make their decisions as to what they want to do," the official said. if usda decides to go ahead with a subsidy offer to the soviet union, he said, "shultz will not wage a vigorous campaign against it. he might not come out in favor of it, but he won't go to the president and voice his objections." in an official statement clarifying shultz's remarks yesterday to leaders of the national association of wheat growers, the state department said, "secretary shultz expressed his belief that whenever possible, u.s. grain should be competitive on world markets, including the soviet union. the agriculture department is in the best position to determine whether consideration should be given at this time to extending to the soviets a subsidy under the export enhancement program." although shultz will not oppose a wheat subsidy to the soviets, there remain obstacles to another subsidy offer to moscow, the state department official said. "everyone in the government agrees that if there is a subsidy to be offered, we would not offer it unless we had a firm commitment from the soviets that they would buy." usda does not want a repetition of last summer when the ussr baulked at its offer of four mln tonnes of subsidized wheat, the official, who asked not to be identified, said. the soviets rejected the u.s. offer then on the grounds that the 13 dlr per tonne subsidy was insufficient to bring u.s. prices down to competitive levels. the soviets want a higher subsidy offer this time, the state department source said. "what the soviets want is something equivalent to the lowest price being paid by anyone in the world," he said. the soviets argue that they are the best customer of the u.s. and that they are entitled to the best price, he said. government and commodity sources also said there are elements in the usda, most notably undersecretary daniel amstutz, who remain opposed to a wheat subsidy to the soviets. "subsidized wheat to the soviet union is still not a foregone conclusion," the state department official said. reuter
0	the andean development corp (caf) said today it is lending 11.7 mln dlrs to ecuador to help repair 25 miles of oil pipeline destroyed by an earthquake earlier this month. the loan was signed here today in the offices of the caracas based caf by the corporation's president, galo montano perez and ecuadorean ambassador antonio parra gil. the loan had originally been intended to finance an expansion of the pipeline, but following the earthquake the ecuadorean government asked for the terms to be changed so as to permit their use in reconstruction. ecuador expects oil production to be suspended for four months as a result of the damage, and has asked venezuela to help by supplying 50,000 barrels per day while the pipeline is repaired. the opec member has a production quota of 210,000 bpd but has asked the organization to allow it to produce 310,000 bpd once the repairs are completed so as to compensate the loss. reuter
0	president reagan said the united states must do more to lessen its reliance on imported oil. president reagan said during a nationally televised news conference that the rising u.s. reliance on foreign oil is a problem that the administration is studying. "we have to study this more," reagan said. "this is why we increased the strategic (petroleum) reserve, but we have to do more," he said. reagan said his administration has already proposed deregulating natural gas and eliminating the windfall profits tax on crude oil production. however, he complained that congress had not yet approved those measures. the department of energy earlier this week released a report that warned of rising u.s. reliance on foreign oil imports at a time when domestic production is declining. it suggested options for the administration to consider, but made no specific recommendations. reuter
1	three geographically diverse droughts in asia are being linked by some scientists to a reintensification of the complex and little-understood el nino weather pattern, <accu-weather inc>, a commercial weather forecasting service, said. rice and wheat farmers in china, wheat and sugarcane growers in australia and tea planters in sri lanka all face serious losses to their respective harvests unless rains arrive in time to break the droughts, offical reports, government officials and meteorologists said. wen wei po, a hong kong daily with close peking links, said the drought is the worst in over 20 years and some provinces have been without adequate rainfall for more than seven months. rice planting is threatened in eight provinces, it added. rainfall in the key farming provinces of henan and sichuan was 70 pct below average during february, the lowest figure for over 20 years, the paper said. the dry weather has cut stored water volumes by over 20 pct compared with last march and lowered the water levels of many rivers, it added. this has resulted in reduced hydro-electric power, causing shortages to industry and households. the upper reaches of the yangtze are at their lowest levels in a century, causing many ships to run aground, wen wei po said. unusually high temperatures have also been reported across china, media reports said. the people's daily said sichuan has recorded temperatures three degrees celsius higher than average since early february. the new china news agency said the average december temperature in harbin in the northeast was six degrees higher than last december and 14 degrees higher than december 1984. severe drought is affecting about one-third of sri lanka and threatens to reduce the country's tea crop, ministry of plantation industries officials told reuters in australia, concern is growing about below-average rainfall levels in parts of the sugarcane belt along the queensland coast and in western australia's wheat belt, local meteorological bureau officials said. for many farmers and government officials the fear is that while the present low rainfall does not yet pose a major threat, the prospect of a dry autumn/winter season when the wheat crop is in its early stages certainly does, they added. concern is heightened by the memory of the 1982/83 drought which devastated the wheat crop and coincided with the occurrence of the barely understood weather phenomenon known as el nino, they said. although meteorologists are cautious about linking the asia-pacific region's disrupted weather patterns to any single cause, el nino's role is being closely studied, they said. accu-weather inc, which specialises in providing data for agriculture and shipping interests, said each el nino 'event' was unique. the el nino does not always produce the same effects and the present occurrence is much less pronounced than the last major event in 1982/83, it said. el nino, spanish for "christ child" because it appears around christmas, is formed by the action of warm air, bearing clouds and rain, shifting from the indonesian archipelago to the coast of peru, where it mingles with the cold waters associated with the peru current and returns across the pacific as the trade winds, meteorologists said. the winds, strengthened by el nino's "pump" effect, raise the sea level off australia and indonesia, they said. when the winds drop, the ocean, seeking equilibrium, sends a surge of warmer water back across the pacific where it collides with the cold seas off peru, they said. one effect of this heat exchange is to deflect the rain-bearing clouds away from australia and indonesia into the pacific, where they further disrupt other weather patterns. the prospects for an end to the droughts vary, accu-weather said. china, where the affected areas have received between 40 and 75 pct of normal rainfall, will have to wait for the may-september rains, it said. the may-september rains normally provide the drought-striken areas with 80 pct of annual rainfall. in australia, areas of queensland's coastal strip have received less than half the normal rainfall during the current wet season, but prospects for increased rains are diminishing as the rainy season draws to an end. in sri lanka, the drought has come when rainfall should be at its maximum for the year. the year's secondary rains usually occur between april and june, although it is not possible at this stage to forecast whether they will arrive as usual. reuter
1	rain and floods in india last year damaged about 69,000 tonnes of grain intended for human consumption during storage and transportation, food and civil supplies minister h. k. l. bhagat told parliament. he did not give comparative figures and said the government-owned food corporation of india (fci) had not yet decided whether these grains could be used as cattle feed. bhagat said the fci had a total of 16.43 mln tonnes of food grains in its warehouses at the end of 1986. it had asked state governments to build more warehouses to avoid damage to grains. reuter
1	the european community authorised the export of 25,000 tonnes of barley yesterday, bringing the cumulative total at weekly tenders since the series started last june to 3.33 mln tonnes, close to the 3.37 mln under licence in the same year ago period, traders said. all bids for wheat were rejected. however, the total to date of 5.06 mln tonnes is still substantially more than the 3.03 mln under licence a year ago. the 80,000 tonnes of french maize granted for export moved the total to 135,000 tonnes since the tender opened in february this year. there were no facilities for maize in the previous weekly grain export series. reuter
0	president reagan said the united states must do more to lessen its reliance on imported oil. president reagan said during a nationally televised news conference that the rising u.s. reliance on foreign oil is a problem that the administration is studying. "we have to study this more," reagan said. "this is why we increased the strategic (petroleum) reserve, but we have to do more," he said. reagan said his administration has already proposed deregulating natural gas and eliminating the windfall profits tax on crude oil production. however, he complained that congress had not yet approved those measures. the department of energy earlier this week released a report that warned of rising u.s. reliance on foreign oil imports at a time when domestic production is declining. it suggested options for the administration to consider, but made no specific recommendations. reuter
0	trico industries inc said it has received a six mln dlr contract to supply hydraulic lift equipment for heavy crude oil production for the chinese ministry of petroleum industry. the company said the equipment is for use in the laiohe oilfield 350 miles northeast of peking and will equip a 140-well program. reuter
0	<canada northwest energy ltd> said it reached agreement in principle to sell one mln preferred shares by way of private placement to raise 32.5 mln dlrs for oil and gas exploration. the 5.4 pct cumulative redeemable convertible series d preferred shares will be flow-through shares entitling holders to tax deductions not claimed by the company. the shares will be convertible anytime after issue into common shares at an equivalent conversion price of 32.50 dlrs a share. after one year, they will be redeemable at any time by the company at 25 dlrs a share plus accrued dividends. reuter
0	gulf canada corp said a discharge of material at its amauligak drilling site in the beaufort sea caused no danger to the environment. yesterday, the federal department of energy charged gulf canada with eight counts of illegal dumping for discharging powdered cement and drilling mud between september 23 and 30 last year. the charges carry a maximum 50,000 dlr fine on each count. gulf said the government's charges relate to discharging materials without a permit, not to environmental damage resulting from the action. gulf said it voluntarily informed appropriate government officials when the material was discharged. the company also said none of the material was discharged within 12 miles of the closest shoreline. it added that one of the materials cited, barite, is a naturally occurring mineral routinely discharged into the sea during drilling operations. reuter
1	grain analysts surveyed by the american soybean association, asa, projected acreage this year at 59.1 mln acres of soybeans and 64.7 mln acres of corn. in 1986, farmers planted 61.5 mln acres of soybeans and 76.7 mln acres of corn, according to the february 9 usda supply/demand report. the usda is to release its 1987 planting intentions report march 31. the survey included 15 soybean estimates and 13 corn estimates and was released in the march 16 soybean update newsletter sent to members. estimates ranged from 56.0 mln to 63.0 mln acres of soybeans and 59.5 mln to 68.0 mln acres of corn. an asa spokesman said the association plans no survey of farmers' planting intentions this year. reuter
1	the agriculture department is not considering any major changes in its pricing system for posted county prices, an agriculture department offical said. "we do not have current plans to make any major adjustments or changes in our pricing," said bob sindt, usda assistant deputy administrator for commodity operations. u.s. grain traders and merchandisers said earlier this week usda might act soon to reduce the cash corn price premium at the gulf versus interior price levels by dropping ascs posted prices to encourage interior pik and roll movement. but sindt denied usda is planning any such changes. "if people are suggesting that we are going to make wholesale changes in pricing, we are not considering this," he said. sindt, however, did not rule out the possiblity of implementing more minor changes in its pricing system. "we are continually monitoring the whole nationwide structure to maintain its accuracy," he said. "if we become convinced that we need to make a change, then appropriate adjustments will be made." sindt acknowledged that concern has been voiced that usda's price differentials between the new orleans gulf and interior markets are not accurate because of higher than normal barge freight rates. he said commodity operations deputy administrator ralph klopfenstein is currently in the midwest on a speaking tour and will meet with ascs oficials in kansas city next week. sindt said a number of issues will be discussed at that meeting, including the current concern over the gulf corn premiums. he defended the usda differentials, saying that these price margins reflect an average of prices throughout the year and that seasonal factors will normally cause prices to increase or decrease. the usda official also said that only those counties that use the gulf to price grain are being currently affected by the high barge freight tariffs and increased gulf prices. when asked if the usda emergency storage program which allows grain to be stored in barges was taking up barge space and accounting for the higher freight rates, sindt discounted the idea. he said usda has grain left in only about 250 barges and that, under provisions of the program, these all have to be emptied by the end of march. reuter
1	there are heightened fears that "el nino" may be returning to peru with an intensity approaching the 1983 disaster, which affected the weather on several continents and caused widespread damage through floods and drought, the u.s. agriculture department's officer in lima said in a field report. continued heavy rains in the northern coastal area, flooding of several major rivers and mud slides have led to increased concern, the report, dated march 17, said. however, it said official sources still believe that this year's el nino will have only weak to moderate intensity. el nino is a phenomenon involving a shift in winds and waters in the pacific. the usda report said that so far the el nino now being experienced has not had an overall negative impact on agricultural production. excessive rains in the piura pima cotton area may reduce yields by about 20 pct due to excessive growth too early in the crop cycle. also insect damage to crops could be more extensive where excessive moisture exists, it said. however, the el nino has resulted in a much improved supply of irrigation water in the major dams which will improve prospects for many crucial crops such as rice and corn, and slow the decline in sugar production, it said. if el nino picks up momentum, peru's fishing industry could receive a setback. but trade sources still believe the fish catch for industrial processing will reach 5.5 mln tonnes in 1987, almost 20 pct above last year, the report said. water temperatures in the northern fishing areas are three to four degrees centigrade above normal but still not high enough to drive the fish to cooler southern waters, it said. it said there is still the outside chance that el nino will intensify and carry on through late march, april and may causing problems as crops approach harvest. "there appears to be no way to project the course of el nino -- only time will tell," the report said. reuter
1	the soviet union's winter grain crop is likely to have suffered losses due to dry planting conditions last fall and severe cold this winter, an analyst of world weather and crop conditions said. grain analyst and meteorologist gail martell, author of the ef hutton publication "global crop news," said in her latest report that the soviets may import more grain, possibly wheat, from the u.s. due to potential crop damage. "compared with last year, the outlook (for the soviet winter grain crop) is far more pessimistic," she said. "but it's still too early to talk about disastrous losses. a lot will depend on spring weather, not only for the outcome of the troubled winter grain crop, but also for spring planting." martell said the dry weather conditions last fall probably prevented optimal seed germination for winter grains. key wheat growing areas of the southern ukraine and north caucasus received on 25-35 pct of autumn precipitation, she said. the bitter winter cold temperatures -- which broke record lows that had stood for four decades -- also may have taken its toll on soviet winter crops, she said. however, she noted that most of the southern grain belt had ample snow cover, which should have well-insulated the majority of crop areas from severe frost damage. the ussr has already bought 20 to 21 mln tonnes of grains in the july 1986/june 1987 marketing year, primarily from canada, the european community, argentina and australia, martell said. she cited a number of reasons besides possible crop problems that might point to additional soviet import demand. last fall's dry weather may limit livestock grazing on moisture-depleted pastures, while the cold winter weather necessitated supplemental feeding to keep livestock healthy. martell was also skeptical of a soviet claim for a 1986 grain harvest of 210 mln tonnes, and said the chernobyl accident may have contaminated more grain than originally thought and have to be made up with imports. however, she said the u.s. remains a supplier of last resort for the soviet union, noting that the soviets have only just recently begun their first u.s. grain purchases of the 1986/87 season by buying 2.25 mln tonnes of corn. martell cited usda statistics showing that since the 1980 grain embargo the u.s. is only a major supplier of grain to the ussr during years of heavy soviet demand. in 1984/85, the u.s. supplied 41 pct of record soviet grain imports of 55.5 mln tonnes. but in 1985/86, the soviet union bought 29.9 mln tonnes of grain and turned to the u.s. for only 24 pct of that total. while the usda soviet import target for grain for 1986/87 was 22 mln tonnes, many u.s. grain analysts have revised their estimates of soviet imports up to 25-28 mln tonnes, she said. reuter
1	the commodity credit corporation, ccc, has accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover a sale of 6,000 tonnes of semolina to egypt, the u.s. agriculture department said. the department said the semolina is for shipment april-october, 1987, and the bonus awarded was 224.87 dlrs per tonne. the bonus was made to international multifoods corp and will paid to the exporter in the form of commodities from ccc stocks, the department said. an additional 7,000 tonnes of semolina are still available to egypt under the export enhancement program initiative announced august 1, 1986, it said. reuter
1	total food aid needs in 69 of the least developed countries declined in 1986/87, as requirments fell in many countries in africa, the middle east and asia, the u.s. agriculture department said. in a summary of its world agriculture report, the department said grain production in sub-saharan africa was a record high in 1986, with gains in almost every country. however, food needs in central america rose, worsened by drought-reduced crops and civil strife. record wheat production in 1986/87 is pushing global wheat consumption for food to a new high, and higher yielding varieties have been particularly effective where spring wheat is a common crop, it said. however, may developing countries in tropical climates, such as sub-saharan africa, southeast asia, and central america, are not well adapted for wheat production, and improved varieties are not the answer to rising food needs, the department said. world per capita consumption of vegetable oil will rise in 1986/87 for the third straight year. soybean oil constitutes almost 30 pct of vegetable oil consumption, while palm oil is the most traded, the department said. reuter
0	the u.s. department of energy said it has awarded bids for about 90,000 barrels per day, bpd, of crude oil from the elk hills naval petroleum reserve in california. the contract period runs from april one through july one, the doe said. successful bidders, the amount of crude oil and the price per bbl according to the doe are as follows - texaco inc's <tx> texaco trading and transport 15,000 bpd at 15.79 dlrs and 2,200 bpd at 15.19 dlrs, beacon oil co 7,000 bpd at 15.66 dlrs and 2,500 bpd at 16.04 dlrs, golden west refining 8,110 bpd at 15.42 dlrs. successful bidders, the amount of oil and price per bbl, according to the doe continue as follows - chevron's <chv> chevron usa inc 3,000 bpd at 14.51 dlrs and 4,000 bpd at 14.61 dlrs, chevron international oil co 2,600 bpd at 14.41 dlrs and 2,800 bpd at 14.51 dlrs, newhall refining co 6,000 bpd at 15.82 dlrs, caljet inc 4,000 bpd at 15.32 dlrs, casey co 4,000 bpd at 15.45 dlrs. also, cryssen refining inc 4,000 bpd at 15.47 dlrs, edgington oil co 4,000 bpd at 15.54 dlrs, sound refining inc 3,100 bpd at 15.51 dlrs, atlantic richfield co <arc> 3,000 bpd at 15.75 dlrs. successful bidders, the amount of crude oil and the price per bbl according to the doe continue as follows - orkin inc 2,679 bpd at 15.24 dlrs, lunday-thagard co 2,511 bpd at 15.27 dlrs, golden eagle refining 2,500 bpd at 15.37 dlrs, macmillan ring-free oil co 1,000 bpd at 15.81 dlrs, 1,000 bpd at 15.71 dlrs and 230 bpd at 16.02 dlrs, mock resources 2,000 bpd at 15.76 dlrs, petro-diamond 2,000 bpd at 15.46 dlrs. reuter
0	higher crude oil prices will raise demand for natural gas, helping it to reclaim market share lost to heavy oil when prices plunged in 1986, analysts said. the analysts said that these efforts will be most successful in the industrial sectors of the economy with large and growing energy requirements. "natural gas stands a good chance to recapture the share of oil supplied to electric utilities that it lost to the residual fuel industry last year," michael smolinski, an energy economist with data resources inc, told reuters. an estimated 200,000 barrels per day of residual fuel went into the utilities market at the expense of natural gas last year when world oil prices plunged, smolinski said. assuming oil prices hold above 15 dlrs a barrel, national average gas prices delivered to the utilities at a projected 2.10 to 2.25 dlrs per mln btu would be very competitive, michael german, vice president of economic analysis at american gas association said. the average delivered prices at the end of january were 2.10 dlrs per mln btu, compared with 3.26 dlrs a year ago. "we expect natural gas to regain 250 to 400 billion cubic feet (of demand) in the overall energy market in the second and third quarter (1987)," he said. in addition to price competitiveness, availability will be an important factor persuading energy users to switch to gas, frank spadine, senior energy economist with bankers trust corp. in new york noted. spadine said the mild winter in many parts of the north american continent has led to a build up of gas inventories and less would be necessary to replenish underground storage this spring freeing gas for spot sales. these forecasts develop a strong counterpoint to the fears that natural gas suplies would be tight and prices significantly higher given a sharp decline in drilling last year. aga's german contended that despite the drilling decline, much of u.s. proved reserves could be brought to production quickly through developments such as the infill drilling which permits more wells to be drilled in proved reserve basins. citing recent eia statistics, german said, the gas surplus was likely to contract from three trillion cubic feet in 1986 to two trillion cubic feet in 1987, but the surplus would not go away until 1990. smolinski of data resources agreed that the surplus would persist until 1990. while gas supplies may tighten in certain consuming areas, notably in california and in the northeast u.s., an overall shortfall appeared remote. reuter
0	world bank president barber conable is expected to press indonesia, the third world's sixth largest debtor, to maintain the momentum of economic policy changes to tackle the slump in its oil revenues, western diplomats said. conable, who flew to indonesia yesterday from tokyo, will meet with president suharto and senior economic ministers. he said on arrival that the economy of south-east asia's largest nation was being managed well, but the slump in world oil prices called for major policy adjustments. today the world bank chief will visit bank-funded projects in the eastern section of java, indonesia's most populous island. he will see suharto on tuesday after a day of detailed discussions with ministers tomorrow. indonesia, the only asian member of opec, has been severely hit by last year's crash in oil prices, which cut its oil and gas revenues in half. japan's state export-import bank last month agreed to provide around 900 mln dlrs in untied credits to help indonesia pay for its share of 21 world bank development projects. indonesia, a country of 168 mln people, has responded to the oil slump by cutting spending, devaluing its currency by 31 pct, and trying to boost exports, while using foreign loans to bridge its deficit. diplomats said that conable was expected to press suharto and leading economic ministers to maintain the pace of policy change, particularly in dismantling indonesia's high-cost protected economy. "oil prices, the debt crisis, the world recession, all call for major policy adjustments and external support," conable said in his arrival statement. but with indonesia facing parliamentary elections next month, he is likely to avoid anything which would imply that the bank is demanding specific changes. "we believe there has been wise leadership here and the economy is being very well managed," conable told reporters at jakarta airport. indonesia has official and private overseas debts totalling 37 billion dlrs, according to the bank, which makes it the third world's sixth biggest debtor. it has received 10.7 billion dlrs from the world bank since 1968. conable did not spell out what further changes he would like to see. last month the bank endorsed economic changes already introduced by indonesia, but implied it wanted more. giving a 300 mln dlr loan in balance of payments support, the bank said it will monitor progress on implementation of the government's trade reform measures, and supported its determination to promote efficiency and longer-term growth. indonesia has introduced a series of measures since last may to boost non-oil exports, liberalise trade and encourage outside investment. suharto has also ordered a government committee to look into which of indonesia's 215 state-run companies could be sold. but in a report last month, the u.s. embassy said the government appeared divided over how far to take its reforms. western analysts say that in particular the government is unsure how far to go with dismantling indonesia's high-cost monopolies, which control core areas of the economy. central bank governor arifin siregar said this week that indonesia faced very limited economic choices. it could not spend its way out of trouble because this would increase the balance of payments deficit and domestic inflation. he said the main objective was to raise exports outside the oil and natural gas sector. indonesia's current account deficit is projected by the government to fall to 2.64 billion dlrs in the coming financial year which starts on april 1, from an estimated 4.1 billion in 1986/87. reuter
0	an explosion followed by a fire ripped through a british petroleum (bp) oil refinery, killing one man. a bp spokesman said the fire was confined to one plant at the 700-acre refinery at grangemouth, 25 miles west of edinburgh. the cause and extent of the damage had yet to be determined. two people were killed in a previous explosion and fire at the plant on march 13. that incident is still being investigated, the spokesman said. reuter
0	the government's over-reliance on revenue from crude oil is adversely affecting australia's economic performance, australian petroleum exploration association (apea) chairman dennis benbow said. over one-third of australia's indirect tax income is derived from oil at a time of falling domestic output and weak crude prices, he told the apea annual conference here. this dependence on oil-generated revenue distorts the country's economic performance directly by acting as a disincentive to new exploration and indirectly by affecting trading competitiveness through high energy costs, he said. australia's medium-term liquid fuel self-sufficiency position is posing a major economic threat, yet the government's response has been to load new tax burdens on the oil industry, benbow said. domestic oil output from existing fields is expected to fall to 280,000 barrels per day (bpd) in fiscal 1992/93 from 546,000 bpd in 1985/86, reflecting mainly the decline of the bass strait fields, he said. bass strait reserves are now two-thirds depleted, with the three largest fields 80 pct depleted, he said. by 1992/93, bass strait output is expected to be just over half the 1985/86 level, assuming a number of so far undeveloped fields are brought on stream and enhanced recovery from existing fields goes ahead, benbow said. government projections of output from as yet undiscovered fields range from 40,000 to 130,000 bpd, he said. australian liquid fuel demand is forecast to rise to 680,000 bpd in 1992/93 from 565,000 in 1985/86, implying a crude oil gap of between 270,000 and 360,000 bpd in five years time, he said. at present world oil prices and the current value of the australian dollar, annual oil imports in 1992/93 would cost between 3.2 billion and 3.6 billion dlrs, benbow said. despite intensive exploration in the early 1980's, the addition to reserves has been inadequate, he said. for example, the 409 mln barrels discovered in the five years 1980-84 represent about two years' consumption, he said. he called on the government to review its tax policies to restore incentive to exploration. reuter
0	world governments should prepare for an inevitable significant increase in the price of oil as non-middle east supplies diminish, exxon corp <xon> director and senior vice-president donald mcivor said. policymakers must also face up to the reality that the bulk of world oil reserves lies in the middle east, he said in a speech prepared for delivery to the australian petroleum exploration association (apea) annual conference. it appears ever more likely that new discoveries elsewhere will not change this fact, he said. mcivor said 37 of the world's 30,000 oil fields contain about 35 pct of all oil ever discovered. only 11 of these 37 super-giant fields lie outside the middle east and only five of the 37 have been discovered in the last 20 years, three of them in the middle east, he said. he also said that since 1970, the world has been consuming 20 to 25 billion barrels a year while making discoveries at the rate of only 10 to 15 billion barrels a year. more than half of remaining proved reserves are in the middle east, he said. mcivor said it was important to continue to search for oil outside the middle east because each addition contributes to a diversity of supply desirable for global political and economic stability. "it is important to enhance the likelihood of home-country discoveries with measures such as non-discriminatory and stable taxation, and minimum regulation, together with opening up of acreage for exploration," he said. increasing reliance on the middle east will also boost the incentive to use natural gas and synthetic sources of petroleum, he added. reuter
0	a 10 percentage point reduction in the australian government's maximum crude oil levy on old oil would stabilize bass straits oil output, resources analyst ian story said here. a reduction to 70 pct from 80 pct would enable bass strait output to be maintained at the current rate of 420,000 barrels per day (bpd) for the next year rather than falling to 380,000 bpd in 1987/88, he told the australian petroleum exploration association annual conference. story is an analyst with and a director of sydney stockbroker meares and philips ltd. windfall profits taxes on bass strait crude are no longer appropriate in the current economic climate, story said. the maximum 80 pct levy on old oil -- that discovered before september 1975 -- is now forcing the broken hill pty co ltd <brkn.s>/exxon corp <xon> partnership to shut-in production, accelerating the decline in output and reducing government revenue, he said. he said the producer return per barrel at a price of 30 australian dlrs a barrel would rise to 2.07 dlrs from 0.80 dlrs if the levy was cut to 70 pct. "the economics at an 80 pct levy are simply not attractive at oil prices below 30 dlrs," story said. cutting the maximum levy rate to 70 pct would create higher levels of self-sufficiency, increase government revenue, boost exports and provide incentives for exploration and development, he said. the government is currently reviewing the oil tax structure. reuter
0	the entire british petroleum co plc refinery at grangemouth in scotland has been shut down following the explosion and fire that severely damaged the hydrocracker at the site, a refinery spokesman said. he said the rest of the 178,500 bpd refinery, including the 19,000 bpd catalytic cracker, was undamaged. the whole refinery was closed pending enquiries but a decision when to reopen the main units will be taken in the next couple of days, he said. but there was extensive damage to the central part of the 32,000 bpd hydrocracker, which upgrades heavy oil products to gasoline, and it will be out of operation for some months. the spokesman said bp will not suffer supply shortages as a result of the explosion as it will be able to bring in product from other sources. bp has a 437,000 bpd refinery in rotterdam, a 181,900 bpd unit at ingolstadt, west germany, a 181,900 bpd plant at lavera in france and a smaller swedish plant. he said the explosion and fire, in which one worker was killed, occurred when the hydrocracker was not in operation. the refinery as a whole had been operating at about half of its capacity since the end of january while an extensive overhaul was carried out on the north side of the complex where the hydrocracker is sited, he said. this work was scheduled to be completed by mid-april, but this is now being assessed following the hydrocracker accident. two people were killed in an explosion and fire in a flare line at the grangemouth refinery on march 13, but the spokesman said this incident was some 100 yards from the latest accident. reuter
1	china's top leader deng xiaoping said china must not import more than 10 mln tonnes of grain, ming pao newspaper of hong kong said. customs figures show that china imported 7.73 mln tonnes of grain in 1986, up from 5.97 mln in 1985 but down from a record 16.15 mln in 1982. the newspaper quoted deng as saying that grain output is one of several key issues that will influence the whole development of the economy. it did not give the context of his remarks. the 1987 grain production target is 405 mln, up from 391 mln in 1986. the newspaper quoted deng as saying that the situation has reached the point where "pigs are not fed, there is not enough grain and increases in output have slowed." "we should in our overall economic planning put agriculture in its proper place to reach our target of 480 mln tonnes by the year 2000," he said. "we must avoid the situation in recent years of importing more than 10 mln tonnes of grain." the paper quoted deng as saying that the state council has decided to raise the price of five grains, including corn and rice, unchanged since 1978, but it gave no details. reuter
0	iraq said its warplanes launched two bombing raids on iran's offshore nowruz oilfield in the northern gulf today. a military spokesman, quoted by the official iraqi news agency, said platforms at the field were reduced "to rubble." he said attacks on the field, 55 miles northwest of iran's kharg island oil terminal, were carried out at 0600 gmt. he said today's raids "fall within iraq's policy to deprive iranian rulers of oil revenue used to serve their aggressive aims." iraqi planes yesterday raided the nearby ardeshir oil field, resuming attacks on iranian targets after a month-long lull. reuter
1	australian wheat plantings are forecast to fall to 10.40 mln hectares in 1987/88 from 11.72 mln sown in 1986/87, australian wheat forecasters pty ltd (awf) said in its first preliminary crop forecast. but there was no reason to expect australian production in 1987/88 would be less than the 16.5 mln tonnes of last year, the private forecaster said, as crops in new south wales and queensland suffered from poor yields last season. most of the fall in plantings was expected in western australia while state average yields would be assisted by growers sowing wheat on fallows and rest paddocks, it said. the main reason for a low western australia estimate was a poor profit outlook under cost, credit and yield pressures. but in the eastern states the wheat area should hold up provided that rainfall between now and june is not less than average, awf said. although some farmers were saying they intended to cut back wheat area by 20 pct, awf said this was unlikely since they needed cash flow and there were problems with alternative crops. "the lack of statutory marketing for oilseeds, pulses and oats is a cause for concern if those crops are to comprise a high proportion of growers' income," awf said. awf's state area forecasts in mln hectares, with 1986/87 production in mln tonnes, are as follows (crop forecasts were not given for the new wheat year) area crop 1987/88 1986/87 1986/87 queensland 0.82 0.82 0.95 n.s.w. 3.07 3.17 4.40 victoria 1.53 1.63 3.25 s.australia 1.45 1.64 2.30 w.australia 3.53 4.46 5.60 reuter
0	iran said reports that it intended to threaten shipping in the gulf were baseless, and warned the u.s. and other countries not to interfere in the region. tehran radio, monitored by the bbc, quoted a foreign ministry spokesman as saying any attempt at interference would be met by "a strong response from iran and other moslems in the world." u.s. defence secretary caspar weinberger, in remarks apparently unrelated to the broadcast, said the u.s. would do whatever was necessary to keep shipping lanes open in the face of new iranian anti-ship missiles in the gulf. the u.s. state department said two days ago tehran had been told of u.s. concern that iranian anti-ship missiles posed a threat to the free flow of oil from the gulf. u.s. officials have said iran has new chinese-made anti-ship "silkworm" missiles, which pose a greater threat to merchant ships than missiles used before. the iranian spokesman said the reports that iran intended to attack ships were "misleading propaganda." he said iraq's president saddam hussein was the main cause of tension in the gulf and said iran would continue to use "all its legitimate means to stem the cause of tension." weinberger said in a television interview in the u.s. "we are fully prepared to do what's necessary to keep the shipping going and keep the freedom of navigation available in that very vital waterway." "we aren't going into any disclosures or discussions of what might happen, but we are certainly very sympathetic to and listening carefully to any suggestions for our assistance in keeping navigation free in that area," he said. weinberger said u.s warship movements in the gulf area were not unusual. a u.s. navy battle group led by the aircraft carrier kitty hawk is currently in the northern arabian sea. the iranian spokesman was quoted by tehran radio as saying the u.s. was trying to build up its military presence in the region. reuter
0	the sharp drop in world oil prices the past year triggered a 60 pct increase in bankruptcies in the country's oil states, according to a study released by the american petroleum institute (api). api said the dunn and bradstreet study found that business failures rose nationally by 6.9 pct in 1986 over 1985, but in the "oil patch" of the southwest the increase was 59.9 pct. it said bankruptcies in texas were up 57.4 pct, oklahoma, 55.9 pct, colorado, 55.8 pct and louisiana, 46.6 pct. in alaska, failures rose by 66.2 per cent, it said. api also said that three of the states with the highest number of bank failures last year were large oil and gas producers - texas, oklahoma and kansas. reuter
0	the world's dependency on the mideast as the source for its petroleum is growing and nothing is going to stop it, donald k. mcivor, an exxon corp <xon> director and senior vice president told reuters in an interview. "non-opec production will begin to decline and the gap between demand and supply will widen so that the trend to increasing dependence on opec and the middle east is inevitable," mcivor said. decreased supplies will firm prices for crude oil but are not likely to change a growing dependence, mcivor said. mcivor, exxon's senior vice president responsible for oil and gas exploration and production said that dependence would result from the mideast's large spare capacity at a time when the rest of the world consumes more oil than it was finding. "since 1970 we've been consuming oil at rates of 20-25 billion barrels per year while making new discoveries of only about 10-15 bilion barrels per year," mcivor said. "the bulk of the inventory and more than half of the remaining proved reserves lies in the middle east which is producing at much less than current capacity," he added. mcivor said that of the some 30,000 oil fields discovered so far only 37 "one-one thousandth of the total number contained about 35 pct of all the oil ever discovered." mcivor said, in response to a question, that he did not believe there were any more "super giants", or oil fields with reserves greater than five billion barrels, to be found which would change the conclusion of the world's growing dependency. "of those 37 super giants only 11 lie outside the middle east. only five of the 37 have been discovered in the past 20 years and only two of these lie outside the middle east (cantarell in mexico and alaska's north slope)." mcivor said. mcivor said that many of the large fields outside the u.s. like alaska's prudhoe bay and the north sea were reaching a peak and would soon begin to decline. but the exxon executive said that there were still plenty of opportunities to be explored and developed outside of the middle east, particulartly in canada, the north sea, and australia and africa. mcivor said that decisions to explore and drill in those areas would be depedent upon both the expectations of a higher price of oil as well as the legal regime affecting the companies. "the ideal regime is a stable one not one where there is a constant change in policies," mcivor said. mcivor said he opposed import subsidies or tariffs used to increase exploration as these only benefit one part of the economy at the expense of other parts of the economy. asked about the options offered this week by u.s. energy secretary herrington to increase u.s. production mcivor said he could not comment on subjects like the oil depletion allowance now but "the thrust of his (herrington) report is valid. it has highlighted the growing dependency on the middle east and the need to increase u.s. production." mcivor also said that he expected natural gas to play a greater role in the future in meeting energy needs. "natural gas will have the opportunity to become an increasingly important part of the worlkd's energy supply," mcivor said. "crude oil will be used more and more as a transportation fuel and natural gas will be used more to generate heat, as an industrial fuel," he added. reuter
1	winter kill has probably affected west german winter barley and rapeseed to an above average degree this season, west german grain trader alfred c. toepfer said in its latest report. it is too soon to assess the extent of the damage, but it is likely that northern west german crops are particularly at risk because of insufficient snow cover, it said. the soil needs to warm up rapidly and moisture content must improve to avoid further delays to spring field work, it added. reuter
1	rain over wide areas has raised the prospect of good food crops throughout ethiopia, which suffered a disastrous drought and famine two years ago. aweke aynalem, head of the government's agriculture development department, told reporters prospects were good for attaining the target of 250,000 tonnes of grain in the present growing season, one of two each year in ethiopia. normal crop production in ethiopia is about 648,000 tonnes a year, of which 250,000 tonnes are produced from the "belg" (small) rains which fall at this time of year. the belg rains are used to plant quick-maturing crops like maize and barley. any shortfall during this period affects production in the main rainy season, because farmers eat their stocks of seed. aweke said peasants in wello, tigre and hararghe -- regions which suffered severely from drought -- were now able to sow their crops because of the favourable rains. the government had distributed large quantities of seed and fertiliser, and the rains should ensure a good crop. reuter
0	patrick petroleum co said it signed a definitive agreement to buy bayou resources inc. as previously announced, the transaction is valued at about 8.8 mln dlrs, including 2.8 mln dlrs in debt. under the agreement, patrick will pay six dlrs per share for each bayou share, with additional value being given for bayou's preferred and options. bayou has 827,000 shares out. depending upon the results of the re-evaluation of a significant bayou well as of jan. 1, 1988, bayou stockholders may receive up to an additional two mln dlrs in stock and cash, which has not been included in the 8.8 mln dlrs. reuter
1	the european community (ec) cereals trade lobby organisation coceral said it has written to ec farm commissioner frans andriessen to propose a new system for sales into intervention, which it claims could save the ec budget money. it proposes that applications for intervention be made through a certificate valid for execution three months later. if during the three months the trader found a market elsewhere, he could buy back the certificate on payment of a one pct premium. coceral argues that this would restore the original function of intervention as a safety net and would end the present situation in which produce is often sold into intervention as a precaution. reuter
1	portugal's agriculture minister alvaro barreto said he disagreed with a court order barring the state grain buying agency epac from taking part in cereals import tenders open to private traders. barreto told reporters his aim was to have epac readmitted to the tenders. under the terms of portugal's january 1986 accession to the european community (ec), a grain import monopoly held by epac (empresa publica de abastecimento de cereais) is being reduced by 20 pct annually until all imports are liberalised in 1990. following legal proceedings by private importers, lisbon's civil court decided in a preliminary ruling earlier this month that epac should not be allowed to take part, as it had done, in tenders for the liberalised share of annual grain imports. as a result of this ruling, epac was excluded from a march 12 tender for the import of 80,000 tonnes of maize. barreto said, "my objective is put epac into the tenders because it has a right to take part." he added the government would be studying the court order to see whether or not the ruling could stop epac from participating in future tenders. barreto said there was no reason to exclude any operator, whether public or private, from the tenders. private traders had argued that epac, given its dominant position in the portuguese grain market, had an unfair advantage over them. "there is no reason to make epac a martyr of the system," barreto said. he said the ec's executive commission had accepted the government's view that epac should be eligible. the lisbon court ruling stated that epac's participation in the public tenders was unfair competition and violated the clauses of portugal's ec accession treaty dealing with the gradual dismantling of the state agency's import monopoly. reuter
0	iraq's oil minister qassem ahmed taqi has been moved to the heavy industries ministry, the official iraqi news agcny ina said tonight. it quoted a presidential decree appointing oil ministry undersecretary isam abdul-rahim al-chalaby as the new oil minister. the ministers of industry and communication and transport had both been relieved of their posts, the news agency said. no immediate explanation was given for the changes. al-chalaby is the head of the iraqi national oil company. ina said the decree, signed by president saddam hussein, relieved the minister of heavy industries, subhi yassin khadeir of his post and appointed him a presidential adviser. his ministry was formerly known as the industry and mineral resources ministry. the minister of communications and transport, abdel-jabbar abdel-rahim al-asadi was also relieved of his post and replaced by a member of the ruling baath party regional command, mohammed hamza al-zubeidi. al-zubedei is also a presidential adviser. all three ministers involved in the reshuffle had spent more than four years in their posts. reuter
1	the senate this week might take up proposed legislation that could serve as a lightning rod to expose broad initiatives to change u.s. farm policy. the senate could consider a house-passed bill that would allow wheat and feedgrains farmers to receive at least 92 pct of their income support payments if flooding last year prevented, or will prevent, them from planting their 1987 crops, senate staff members told reuters. also pending is a bill extend the life of the national commission on dairy policy. sen. rudy boschwitz, r-minn., intends to offer an amendment to one of the bills that would suspend the minimum planting requirement for all 1987 wheat, feedgrain, cotton and rice producers, an aide said. under current law, producers must plant at least 50 pct of their base acreage to be eligible for 92 pct of their deficiency payments. most major u.s. farm groups have lobbied hard against making any fundamental changes in the 1985 farm bill out of fear a full-scale debate could expose agricultural problems to budget-cutting pressures. representatives of these farm groups have said they also fear efforts by midwestern democrats to force a floor vote on a bill that would require large acreage set-asides in return for sharply higher support prices. however, sen. tom harkin, d-iowa, sponsor of the bill, told reuters he did not intend to offer his measure as a floor amendment but to bring it through the committee. reuter
0	the united states has offered navy warships to escort kuwaiti oil tankers into and out of the gulf where they could be threatened by new iranian anti-ship missiles, u.s. defense officials said today. "we believe the kuwaitis have also approached the soviet union about the possibility of using soviet tankers" to ship their oil, one of the officials told reuters. "but if there is superpower protection, we would rather it come from us," the official said. the officials, who asked not to be identified, said kuwait had asked about possible protection for a dozen vessels, most of them oil tankers, which could be supplied by three u.s. navy guided missile destroyers and two guided missile frigates now in the southern part of the gulf. "we told them we would give them help and we are waiting to hear the kuwaiti response to our offer," one official said. in addition to a half dozen ships in the u.s. navy's small mideast task force near the straits of hormuz, the pentagon has moved 18 warships -- including the aircraft carrier kitty hawk -- into the northern indian ocean in the past month. white house and defense officials said today that massing of the fleet was routine and had nothing to do with the iran-iraq war or iran's recent stationing of chinese-made anti-ship missiles near the mouth of the gulf. the land-based missiles have increased concern in kuwait and other middle east countries that their oil shipments might be affected. several hundred vessels have been confirmed hit in the gulf by iran and iraq since early 1984. white house spokesman marlin fitzwater told reporters today that it was in the u.s. strategic interest to keep the free flow of oil in the gulf and through the straits of hormuz. but he said u.s. ships in the region were on routine maneuvers. defense secretary caspar weinberger on sunday declined to discuss specifics, but said the united states would do whatever was necessary to keep the gulf shipping open in the face of new iranian anti-ship missiles in the region. "we are fully prepared to do what's necessary to keep the shipping going and keep the freedom of navigation available in that very vital waterway of the world," he said on nbc television's "meet the press." the state department said friday iran has been informed about u.s. concern over the threat to oil shipments in the gulf. the communciation was sent through switzerland, which represents american interests in iran. iran on sunday denied as baseless reports that it intended to threaten shipping in the gulf and warned the united states that any interference in the region would meet a strong response from tehran, tehran radio said. an iranian foreign ministry spokesman, quoted in a broadcast monitored by the bbc in london, said reports that iran intends to threaten shipping in the gulf were baseless. "in conjunction with this misleading propaganda, america has already paved the ground to achieve its expansionist and hegemonistic intentions, aiming to build up its military presence in the region," he was quoted as saying. reuter
0	iraq said today its warplnes had attacked a supertanker and four iranian oil sites and vowed to keep up such raids until the gulf war ends. the surprise escalation of attacks on oil installations broke more than a month-long lull in iraqi air force action. it also followed celebrations yesterday of what baghdad hailed as iran's failure to achieve victory during the iranian year which ended on saturday. a high command communique said warplanes hit the western jetty at iran's kharg island oil terminal in the afternoon and struck a supertanker nearby at the same time. the kharg terminal, attacked about 135 times since august 1985, was last raided in january. the communique did not identify the supertanker, but said columns of smoke were seen billowing from it. in london, lloyds insurance said the 162,046-ton iranian tanker avaj was hit on saturday, when iraq reported an earlier gulf attack. but there has been no independent confirmation of today's supertanker attack nor of other raids on shipping reported by baghdad in the past 24 hours. the last confirmed iraqi attack took place on march eight, when the iranian tanker khark-5 was hit south of kharg. iraqi warplanes also struck iran's offshore oilfields at nowruz, cyrus and ardeshir in northern gulf, some 80 km (50 miles) west of kharg island, today's communique said. the three oilfields have been raided several times in the past three years. oil sources said they were not crucially important to iran's oil export trade. a second high command communique today said iraqi warplanes flew 94 sorties against iranan targets and positions at the war front. it also reported a clash between iraqi naval units and several iranian boats carrying men to attack an iraqi oil terminal at the northen tip of the gulf. two iranian boats wer destroyed and sunk with their occupants and the others fled, it said. reuter
1	the ec commission will decide shortly precisely how to arrange the import of third country maize and sorghum into the ec in fulfilment of its agreement with the united states, commission sources said. under the accord, reached following u.s. complaints about the impact on its agricultural exports of spanish ec membership, the ec will import two mln tonnes of maize and 300,000 tonnes of sorghum a year up to end of 1990. all this produce will be imported into spain at special levy levels likely to be below those applying for imports into other ec countries. the sources said it was possible that the spanish intervention board would be asked to buy the produce directly this year, as it was rather late to make other arrangements. they added that the choice for future years appears to lie between a system of regular tenders and the setting of a daily special levy applicable to spanish imports. there will initially be no tax on re-exports of maize and sorghum from spain to other ec countries, although such a tax could be imposed later, the sources added. reuter
0	energy analyst edward krapels said the united states should consider an oil tariff to keep u.s. dependence on imports below 50 pct. "on the supply side, the argument in favor of a contingent, variable import tariff is most persuasive," krapels, president of energy security analysis, inc said in a statement at a house energy and power subcommittee hearing. "an optimal tariff would be one implemented only if the international price of crude oil falls below, say, 15 dlrs a barrel. on the demand side, the obvious policy is an excise tax on transportation fuels," krapels said. but william johnson of the jofree corp disagreed with the oil tariff proposal, saying congress should remove price controls on natural gas, repeal the windfall profits tax on oil companies, allow exports of alaskan oil and provide tax incentives for u.s. oil production, or, at the least, preserve exisiting tax incentives for drilling. he also urging filling the strategic petroleum reserve at a faster rate. richard adkerson of arthur andersen and co told the subcommittee oil imports were expected to increase because funds for exploration and development of domestic oil sources cannot now be economically justified due to low oil prices. reuter
0	iraqi president saddam hussein carried out his first major government shakeup in five years tonight, naming a new oil minister in shuffling three posts. one minister was dropped in the shuffle, announced in a presidential decree. it gave no reason for the changes in the government of the arab baath socialist party which has ruled iraq since a revolution in 1968. the decree named the head of the iraqi national oil company (inoc), isam abdul-rahim al-chalaby, to take over as oil minister replacing qassem ahmed taqi. taqi, appointed oil minister in the last significant government reorganization in 1982, was moved to be minister of heavy industries. reuter
1	u.s. agriculture undersecretary dan amstutz indicated the united states is willing talk with the soviet union about the competitiveness of u.s. wheat prices but would not discuss making u.s. wheat prices "cheap." "there sometimes is a difference between being competitive and being cheap," amstutz told a senate agriculture appropriations hearing. amstutz said the difference of opinion between moscow and washington last summer on the level of the u.s. subsidy offered on wheat to the soviet union, was over whether the u.s. wheat price was competitive or cheap. "i think there is a (u.s.) willingness to explore this issue as it pertains to competitiveness," amstutz said. however, amstutz added that the united states would not be willing to discuss wheat prices with moscow "if the issue is being cheap." asked later by a reporter what he meant by the distinction between competitive and cheap, amstutz would not elaborate. amstutz said it is the u.s. judgment that the long-term grain agreement between the two countries calls for moscow to buy at least four mln tonnes each of wheat and corn annually at "prices in effect in this country." amstutz made the comments in response to a question from sen. charles grassley, r-iowa, about expanding the export enhancement program to include grain sales to the soviet union. reuter
0	u.s. drilling activity rose last week with the number of working rotary rigs up by 23 to 784, against 1,063 working rigs one year ago, hughes tool co. said. the improvement was the first increase this year in the weekly rig count, which had dropped steadily since early january when a total of 962 rotary rigs were working. among individual states, texas and oklahoma reported the biggest gains in drilling last week with increases of 21 and 11, respectively. california and louisiana were each up by three and wyoming gained two additional working rigs. hughes tool said it counted a total of 692 rigs drilling on land, 74 rigs active offshore and 18 drilling in inland waters. in canada, the rig count was up by two to 183, against 324 one year ago. reuter
0	australia's crude oil tax strategy is probably best tackled in terms of a targeted rather than broadly-based approach, federal resources and energy minister gareth evans told a meeting here. he told the australian petroleum exploration association (apea) annual conference there was a prospect of developing a package that would recognise the government's economic priorities while also meeting some of the industry's concerns. evans was referring to a nearly completed government review of oil taxation. evans said there were plenty of examples where targeted approaches to oil industry taxation had produced good results in recent years. these include the reduction in the top marginal crude excise rate on 'old' bass strait oil found before september 1975 to 80 pct from 87 pct, and the waiver of excise on onshore oil announced last september, he said. the industry, through the apea, has been calling for the elimination of secondary taxation on oil in order to boost incentives for prospecting against a background of weak prices and australia's relatively low exploration levels. "while nobody wants to add further unnecessary complexity to an already complex taxation regime, i am inclined to favour these kinds of tailored approaches ahead of sweeping changes, which leave (government) revenue much reduced and may still leave a lot of uncertainty as to what individual companies are going to do in major areas," evans said. he said the government did not intend to change its resource rent taxation (rrt) legislation, now before parliament, in response to industry calls to allow all exploration expenditure in a given area to be deductible. as previously reported, rrt is a tax of 40 pct limited to highly prospective offshore areas, based on profits after a certain rate of return has been achieved for individual projects. apea has said it is not a true profit-based tax because exploration deductibility is limited to successful projects. evans said the decision not to change rrt was based more than anything on the government's desire to ensure the certainty and stability of the new regime, adding that major investments have already been planned on the existing ground rules. reuter
1	britain and australia have offered a total of 129,250 tonnes of wheat to bangladesh as grants to contain rising cereal prices and help support rural employment projects, officials said. they said 79,250 tonnes of wheat promised by britain would be shipped next week and used for the government's "food for work" program in the villages. under the program, workers building roads, digging irrigation canals and engaged in other rural development activities get their daily wages in wheat instead of money. the 50,000 tonnes of australian wheat would arrive in bangladesh next month and be sold under open-market operations designed to stop price increases, the officials said. prices of rice and wheat have risen at least 15 pct in the past month, market sources said. but the government expects prices to fall after the wheat harvest next month. reuter
0	world bank president barber conable pledged the bank's support to help indonesia adjust to lower world oil prices, but said further deregulation of its protected economy was needed. speaking to reporters after talks with president suharto, he said he expected jakarta to do more to liberalise the economy and deregulate trade policy. indonesia, hurt by the fall in oil prices last year which cut the value of its crude exports in half, is the third world's sixth largest debtor. it has received 10.7 billion dlrs from the world bank in the past 20 years. conable said the world bank, which granted indonesia a 300 mln dlr loan last month to help its balance of payments, was prepared to back jakarta in taking the right steps to adjust to lower oil and primary commodity prices. "we are prepared to support those steps which we believe are consistent with the development of the indonesian economy," he said. he said jakarta's willingness to move quickly after last year's collapse in oil price saved indonesia from some of the difficulties now faced by other countries. indonesia devalued its currency by 31 pct against the dollar in september to avoid a balance of payments crisis, and has announced a series of measures since may intended to stimulate exports, encourage foreign investment and revitalise the economy. however, key monopolies in areas like steel and plastics and high tariff barriers remain in place. conable arrived in indonesia on saturday and has since met 14 indonesian cabinet ministers to review the country's borrowing needs and the impact of falling oil prices on the country. reuter
0	kuwaiti oil minister sheikh ali al-khalifa al-sabah said opec was producing well below its oil output ceiling and this would help prices move higher, according to a kuwaiti newspaper interview. the al-rai al-aam newspaper quoted him as saying opec was pumping 2.4 mln barrels per day (bpd) less than its 15.8 mln bpd ceiling, while consumers were drawing down their petroleum stocks at a rate of 4.5 mln bpd. as long as opec maintains its output curbs, demand for its oil will rise in april and may, sheikh ali said, adding that kuwait was strongly committed to its opec quota. reuter
1	china's summer grain harvest may be good despite a serious drought because the state council (cabinet) has spent one billion yuan on irrigation and other anti-drought work, a hong kong newspaper said. wen hui bao said the drought, which has affected shanxi, hebei, henan and shandong the most, has eased with march rains in south china and march snowfall in the north and as some new irrigation projects have come into use. "if the drought does not worsen, there is hope for a bumper harvest," it quoted experts of the ministry of electric power as saying. they gave no figures. the 1986 summer grain harvest was a record 93 mln tonnes, up from 92 mln in 1985, out of a total 1986 grain harvest of 391 mln. the 1987 target is 405 mln. reuter
0	the council of the australian petroleum exploration association (apea) said it will press on with its campaign for major improvements to australia's petroleum taxation structure. the council said in a statement the industry was bitterly disappointed by the australian government's position on taxation, as presented in a speech by resources and energy minister gareth evans to the apea conference. as earlier reported, evans said he was inclined to target any tax changes rather than take a broad-based approach to secondary taxation of petroleum. apea had expected the government to make positive responses to detailed industry submissions seeking the removal of existing secondary tax disincentives to exploration and development, the council said. it said it plans to reply in detail to issues raised by evans, but its immediate concern was the decision to proceed with the current resource rental tax (rrt) legislation. evans told the conference the government did not plan to accept industry pleas for changes in the legislation to allow deductibility of unsuccessful exploration expenditure. "the government's unwillingness to allow the deduction of unsuccessful exploration expenditure within the whole offshore area in which rrt applies negates any claim that the tax is profit based," the apea council said. the government missed a major opportunity to persuade oil exploration companies that it had realistic answers to the industry's concerns, despite its recognition of the industry's problems, the council said. the industry has called for the end of all discriminatory secondary taxation of petroleum, citing them as major disincentives at a time of low oil prices. reuter
1	a ban by a portuguese court on the state buying agency epac taking part in cereals import tenders open to private traders will remain unless it is reversed in portugal or challenged in the european court of justice, european commission sources said. they denied a statement yesterday by portuguese agriculture minister alvaro barreto that the commission had accepted that epac should be eligible, saying it had taken no view in the matter. under the terms of portugal's accession to the european community, a grain import monopoly held by epac is being reduced by 20 pct annually until all imports are liberalised in 1990. lisbon's civil court decided in a preliminary ruling earlier this month that epac should not be allowed to take part, as it had done in the past, in tenders for the liberalised share of annual grain imports. reuter
0	kuwaiti oil minister sheikh ali al-khalifa al-sabah said opec was producing well below its oil output ceiling and this would help prices move higher, according to a kuwaiti newspaper interview. the al-rai al-aam newspaper quoted him as saying opec was pumping 2.4 mln barrels per day (bpd) less than its 15.8 mln bpd ceiling, while consumers were drawing down their petroleum stocks at a rate of 4.5 mln bpd. as long as opec maintains its output curbs, demand for its oil will rise in april and may, sheikh ali said, adding that kuwait was strongly committed to its opec quota. reuter
0	the u.s. has offered warships to escort kuwaiti tankers in the gulf past iranian anti-ship missile batteries, defence department officials said. the officials told reuters yesterday the offer was made last week by navy admiral william crowe, chairman of the pentagon joint chiefs of staff, during a middle east visit. reagan administration officials said later that washington did not seek military confrontation with tehran, but would not let iran use chinese-made "silkworm" anti-ship missiles, capable of covering the narrow entrance to the gulf, to choke oil shipments to the west. defence officials said kuwait had asked if protection for up to a dozen vessels, most of them tankers, could be provided by three u.s. navy destroyers and two frigates now in the southern gulf and the gulf of oman. in addition to a half dozen ships in the u.s. navy's small mideast task force near the straits of hormuz, the pentagon has moved 18 warships, including the aircraft carrier kitty hawk, into the northern arabian sea in the past month. white house and defence officials said that massing the fleet was routine and had nothing to do with the iran-iraq war or iran's stationing of missiles near the mouth of the gulf. the state department said on friday that iran has been told about u.s. concern over the threat to oil shipments in the gulf. the communication was sent through switzerland, which represents u.s. interests in iran. iran denied as baseless reports that it intended to threaten shipping in the gulf and said any u.s. interference in the region would meet a strong response, tehran radio said on sunday. several hundred vessels have been confirmed hit in the gulf by iran and iraq since early 1984 in the so-called tanker war, an offshoot of their 6-1/2-year-old ground conflict. reuter
1	western agricultural attaches in moscow said they had no evidence to substantiate rumours that last april's chernobyl nuclear disaster had a worse effect on soviet grain than first reported. current soviet interest in chartering ships to carry grain from the u.s. helped prompt the rumours on world markets. but the diplomats said they had seen no reports in the state press and heard no comments from officials to substantiate them. the official media was initially slow in reporting the accident but, under kremlin leader mikhail gorbachev's campaign for openness, gradually gave more and more details. land around the nuclear plant was contaminated to varying degrees. some is now being used to grow industrial crops instead of grain. reuter
0	<a/s norske shell>, royal dutch/shell group's <rd.as> norwegian subsidiary, said it has nearly concluded a 10 billion crown development scheme for norway's draugen oil field and will declare the field commercial in the near future. pending government approval of the scheme, the field could come on stream in 1992, making it norway's northermost field development and the first such project on the haltenbanken tract off central norway. work on the project could begin as early as january 1988, a shell spokesman said. shell has not released projected output levels for the field, where water depth is 240-270 meters. the spokesman said the field's partners have agreed to develop draugen with a 300-meter, single-leg concrete gravity-base platform. the scheme also proposes using remote subsea production wells to tap the field's reservoir, estimated to contain 375 mln barrels of oil, and an offshore buoy-loading system to transport oil from the field by ship. partners on draugen are shell, the operator, with a 30 pct stake, british petroleum co plc <bp.l> unit <bp petroleum development (norway) ltd> (20 pct) and state-owned den norske stats oljeselskap a/s <stat.ol> (statoil) (50 pct). reuter
1	rice and corn farmers will receive the largest payments from the u.s. government during 1987 if the subsidies are calculated per planted acre, the u.s. agriculture department said. usda said government outlays to rice farmers in 1987 are expected to reach 403 dlrs per acre planted, followed by corn at 135 dlrs per planted acre. government outlays include mainly deficiency payments and price support loans. on a per acre basis, cotton payments will reach 73.24 dlrs in 1987, wheat 60.30 dlrs, sorghum 54.38 dlrs, barley 27.41 dlrs and oats 2.31 dlrs, usda said. usda estimates farm subsidies will reach 25.3 billion dlrs in 1987. the figures were given by usda officials at a senate agriculture appropriations hearing yesterday. reuter
0	u.s. department of energy secretary john herrington said he was "optimistic" about the chances of providing a more generous depletion allowance for oil and gas producers, but added that the plan faces strong opposition from some members of the reagan administration. herrington, speaking to houston oil executives at a breakfast meeting, said administration debate over his plan for a 27.5 pct annual depletion allowance was "heavy and strong" largely because of some fears that the u.s. oil industry could eventually become as dependent on federal subsidies as the agriculture industry. herrington's proposed tax incentives for the oil industry were issued last week after the department of energy released a comprehensive report finding u.s. national security could be jeopardized by rising oil imports. in response to a question from mitchell energy and development corp <mnd> chairman, george mitchell, herrington said the report did not definitively rule out an oil import tarrif. "we intend to keep that debate open," herrington said. however, following his speech, herrington told reuters that the new report shows an oil import fee "is not economical." herrington said, for example, a 10 dlr per barrel tariff on oil imports would cause the nation's gross national product to drop by as much as 32 billion dlrs. herrington also said he believed president reagan, who requested the comprehensive national security study, was committed to some action to help the ailing u.s. oil industry. "i'm quite confident he understands the problems and is prepared to do something about it," herrington said. reuter
1	emergency action to distribute european community (ec) food surpluses to the poor has proved so successful that the ec executive commission may propose a permanent scheme, a commission spokesman said. almost 60,000 tonnes of food was taken out of ec stores between january 20, when agriculture ministers approved the scheme, and march 13, according to latest commission figures. the food, including 30,000 tonnes of cereals, 6,000 tonnes of sugar, 4,000 tonnes of beef and 13,300 tonnes of butter, has been distributed to the needy through charities. the present scheme was approved as an emergency measure to help poor people affected by this year's unusually cold winter and will end on march 31. but the spokesman said the commission will consider whether to propose it be replaced by an all-year-round system. the commission estimates that up to march 13 the temporary scheme cost between 63 and 68 mln european currency units (72/78 mln dlrs). this is above the 50 mln ecu (57 mln dlr) ceiling originally envisaged by the ministers. however, commission sources said the real cost was small if account is taken of the expense of keeping food in store until its quality and value deteriorates. on the other hand, the impact of the temporary scheme on ec food surpluses has been slight. ec surplus food stocks at january 31 included 1.28 mln tonnes of butter, 520,000 tonnes of beef and over 10 mln tonnes of cereals. reuter
0	a unanimous supreme court ruled that oil and gas exploration can proceed on two tracts off the alaska coast which were leased by the federal government to eight major oil companies. the ruling was an important victory for the oil companies and the reagan administration's controversial off-shore leasing program and a setback for two small alaskan villages that challenged the leases by claiming damage to the environment. the administration said that the court-ordered halt in drilling had created uncertainty over the 4.2 billion dlrs paid for 621 leases off the shores of alaska since december 1980. a federal appeals court ordered the oil companies to halt all exploration and remove all drilling rigs from two tracts in the bering sea off alaska because of possible harm to the subsistence needs and culture of native eskimos. but the supreme court said the appeals court was wrong in issuing an injunction halting exploration. "here, injury to subsistence resources from exploration was not at all probable," justice byron white wrote for the court. "and on the other side of the balance of harms was the fact that the oil companies had committed approximately 70 mln dlrs to exploration to be conducted during the summer of 1985 which they would have lost without chance of recovery had exploration been enjoined," he said. the oil companies, amoco corp <an>, arco, exxon corp <xon>, mobil corp <mob>, sohio, shell, texaco inc <tx> and union oil, had said that voiding previously granted leases would result in staggering financial losses. the first lease sale in 1983 involved 2.4 mln acres and generated 318 mln dlrs while the second lease sale in 1984 covered 37 mln acres and produced 516 mln dlrs. administration officials, saying the lease sales were preceded by an intense environmental impact study, denied that the oil and gas exploration would hurt subsistence resources. the alaskan villages of gambell and stebbins, along with an organization of eskimo natives on the yukon delta, argued that the drilling would hurt native hunting and fishing. reuter
0	a house taxwriter said energy secretary james herrington's "outrageous" plan to restore an old tax break for oil companies was both bad tax and energy policy. rep. pete stark, a california democrat and senior house ways and means committee member, said herrington's plan for a 27.5 pct depletion allowance--which in effect is a special 27.5 pct tax deduction --would cost seven billion dlrs a year. "he must have missed the last two years of federal tax reform by sleeping as soundly as rip van winkle," stark said. he said in a statement the oil industry already pays an effective lower rate of u.s. tax on investment, 15 pct versus aggregate corporate tax on all investment of 34 pct, according to a recent congressional research service study. reuter
0	tonight's american petroleum institute oil inventory report is expected to show another drawdown in distillate stocks of between two and 7.5 mln barrels for the week ending march 20, oil analysts and traders said. they said they expect gasoline inventories to be depleted by about one to four mln barrels. analysts were divided on the crude stocks. some saw stocks unchanged to as much as three mln barrels higher. others said stocks could be down one to five mln barrels. crude throughput volumes are expected to be unchanged to slightly higher or lower than the week ended march 13, traders said. the api recorded a 7.4 mln barrel stockdraw for u.s. distillates in the week ended march 13. analysts see another draw reflecting historic seasonal trends. for the week ended march 13, api reported gasoline stocks down 2.9 mln barrels. those expecting a draw of as much as four mln barrels said they are looking for fairly high consumption rates as the spring and summer driving season gets underway this year, because retail prices are still low compared to recent years. u.s. crude oil stocks were reported down by 4.4 mln barrels for the week ended march 13. analysts are divided over the outcome for last week because there is uncertainty about whether throughput levels increased or decreased last week. some see crude stock levels unchanged to three mln barrels higher, while others think inventories could be as much as five mln barrels below the previous week. the lower estimates are supported by the belief that crude runs increased and imports fell. the api reported crude runs 154,000 b/d higher for the week ended march 13. analysts are calling it unchanged to slightly up or down for the week ended march 20. expectations for product stockdraws are already being reflected in firmer prices, traders said. but if draws are at the higher end of the estimated range, they added, the effect will be bullish. any stockbuild would be a negative factor, they said. crude runs normally increase in march, and any decrease in runs would be friendly to the market, said peter beutel of elders energy futures inc. reuter
1	european community (ec) member states have generally given a cool initial reaction to proposals by the european commission for cereal price changes and related measures in the coming season, ec diplomats said. they said that in meetings of the ec special committee on agriculture representatives of most member states had said the changes, taken together, would have too harsh an impact on farmers' incomes. only britain and the netherlands had shown willingness to accept the commission's overall package, they said. as well as cuts of over two pct in common prices for most cereals, the commission proposes a limitation of intervention to the february to march period and reduced monthly increments in intervention prices. ec farm ministers will have a first discussion of the proposals at a meeting beginning next monday. reuter
0	goodyear tire and rubber co said the all american pipeline of its celeron corp subsidiary will start line fill activities on march 30 as it begins operating. the company said about five mln barrels of oil will be required to pack the completed segment of the line, which runs 1,225 miles from near santa barbara, calif., to existing pipeline connections in west texas. construction has also staqrted this week on a 43-mile, 16-inch diameter gathering line to deliver 75,000 to 100,000 barrels a day of oil from the san joaquin valley in california. the 30-inch main underground line can transport over 300,000 barrels daily. reuter
1	with less than a week remaining to enroll in the 1987 feedgrains program, agriculture department officials said that final signup will probably exceed last year's level of 85 pct. enrollment in usda's basic acreage reduction program will likely total close to 90 pct, agricultural stabilization and conservation service, ascs, officials said, with 50 to 70 pct of the enrolling farmers also expected to sign up for the paid land diversion program. the signup period of the 1987 feedgrains program officially ends at the close of the business day on march 30. usda will release its official signup report around april 15, an official said. usda personnel in the corn belt states of iowa, illinois, and indiana have been reporting heavy signup activity, an ascs official told reuters. a surge of acitivity is expected during this final week of signup, the official said. "a lot of farmers have been dragging their feet because they were anticipating some changes in the program, but that doesn't look very likely now," he said. to enroll in the 1987 feedgrains program, farmers have to set aside 20 pct of the program acreage base, and have the option to idle an additional 15 pct under a paid land diversion program. reuter
1	the shareholders of illinois cooperative futures co., the futures trading arm of many midwest farm cooperatives for more than 25 years, will vote wednesday on its possible dissolution. the directors of the company called a special meeting and recommended its dissolution last month, citing falling volume and increasing costs. sources close to the organization told reuters the pullout of growmark, inc., which holds more than 70 pct of the capital stock, led to the call for dissolution. the possible demise of the cooperative has set clearing houses scrambling for the trading business of the 85 regional and local cooperatives that comprise its membership. ironically, it was growmark, at that time a regional farm cooperative with major river terminal elevators, that founded illinois cooperative futures on december 1, 1960. but growmark became affiliated last year with archer daniels midland of decatur, ill., and markets its grain through a joint subsidiary of the two companies, adm/growmark. with that relationship, growmark no longer needs to trade futures through the cooperative, said tom mulligan, president of the co-op. membership in the company, which mulligan termed a cooperative of cooperatives, has declined from 99 in 1982. a notable loss was agriindustries of iowa, which became affiliated with cargill, inc. illinois co-op's other members include such regional cooperatives as indiana grain, based in indianapolis, goldkist, of atlanta, ga., midstates in toledo, ohio, farmland industries in kansas city, mo., farmers commodities, des moines, and harvest states in minneapolis. some observors said the demise of illinois cooperative futures co. is a serious blow to the cooperative system. instead of banding together, the individual cooperatives are forced to go their own ways, said the floor manager of one cash house at the chicago board of trade. such a move would destroy the cohesiveness that gives farm cooperatives an advantage in the market at a time that a few major commercial companies are growing dominant, he said. don hanes, vice president for communications with the national council of farm cooperatives, said 5,600 cooperatives exist today, down from 6,700 five years ago. "the period we've gone through in the past five years has been quite a crunch," he said. "there's been a lot of consolidation in the marketing co-ops." one problem, he said, is the co-ops sell the grain to the major commercials for export, rather than exporting it themselves, losing potential profits. but exporting grain requires heavy investments, and the multi-million-dollar loss posted six years ago by farmers export co., a co-op set up to export grains, served "to make folks gun-shy," hanes said. mulligan said he believes the dissolution, if it is approved, is a result of change in the futures industry rather than a change in u.s. agricultural economics. a grain dealer at one member co-op said the futures arm "was a convenience, something that saved us a little bit of money. (its dissolution) will force us to change our way of doing business." "we're sorry to see the co-op go by the wayside," he said. "but there are lot of people out there to do business with. there are plenty of capable firms." steven w. cavanaugh, vice president for grain marketing with indiana grain, said he would prefer to trade futures through a chicago-based cooperative. "in terms of clearing our business as a unit as opposed to individuals, there would be economic savings," he said but added, "the times change and with changing times, come different opinions of what businesses ought to be around." cavanaugh said the possible demise of the futures arm had nothing to do with its profitability. "i would guarantee you that this company is not in trouble. it is a sound, healthy organization." in the year ended february 28, 1986, the illinois cooperative reported income of 10.2 mln dlrs and members' equity, or net worth, of 8.3 mln dlrs. the annual report for the most recent year has not been filed. under the cooperative system, income from operations is returned as "patronage refunds" to the members. income and refunds in the past five years have been declining. in the year ended february 28, 1982, the co-op reported income of 17.4 mln dlrs and patronage refunds of 17.0 mln dlrs. patronage refunds in the year ended february 28, 1986, totalled 9.5 mln dlrs. "you're dealing with substantially lower volume," mulligan said. "lower volume translates into higher costs." according to the company's 1986 annual report, growmark owns 90 pct of the preferred shares and four pct of the common shares of illinois cooperative futures co. mulligan declined to speculate on how much of the capital growmark is entitled to. he said he could not determine the figure unless the shareholders decide in favor of dissolution. equity is distributed according to each member's trading volume and, as a result, changes from year to year. however, mulligan said the company could continue to meet minimum capital requirements to trade futures even if growmark pulled out. reuter
1	the u.s. agriculture department said private u.s. exporters reported 200,000 tonnes of corn previously to unknown destinations have been switched to the soviet union. the corn is for delivery during the 1986/87 marketing year and under the fourth year of the u.s.-ussr long term grain supply agreement. the marketing year for began september 1. sales of corn to the ussr for delivery during the fourth year of the agreement -- which began october 1, 1986 -- now total 2,600,000 tonnes, it said. in the third agreement year sales totaled 6,960,700 tonnes -- 152,600 tonnes of wheat and 6,808,100 tonnes of corn. reuter
1	zaire has been authorized to purchase about 30,000 tonnes of u.s. rice under an existing pl 480 agreement, the u.s. agriculture department said. it may buy the rice, valued at 5.5 mln dlrs, between march 31 and august 31, 1987, and ship it from u.s. ports by september 30, the department said. the purchase authorization covers the entire quantity of rice provided under the agreement. reuter
1	the commodity credit corporation (ccc) has switched 25.0 mln dlrs in wheat credit guarantees to jordan under the export credit guarantee program to the intermediate export credit guarantee program, the u.s. agriculture department said. the switch reduces the total value of gsm-102 guarantees for the current fiscal year to 30.0 mln dlrs. the credit terms extended for export sales under the intermediate export credit guarantee program (gsm-103) must be in excess of three years but not more than seven years. all sales must be registered and exports completed by september 30, 1987, the department said. reuter
0	caltex petroleum corp said it will raise posted prices for naphtha and several grades of residual fuel in bahrain, effective march 25. caltex, a joint venture of chevron corp <chv> and texaco inc <tx>, said its naphtha posting is up four cts a gallon to 43 cts. it said it is raising its marine diesel oil posting by 30 cts a barrel to 20.24 dlrs a barrel. light, medium, and heavy fuel oil postings are up 1.50 dlrs a barrel, the company said. this will bring the light fuel oil price to 16.90 dlrs, medium to 15.50 dlrs, and heavy to 14.60 dlrs, the company said. reuter
1	u.s. corn acreage this year is likely to drop to the lowest level since the unsurpassed acreage reductions of the 1983 pik year and could rank as one of the lowest corn plantings in the united states in sixty years, agriculture department officials said. usda releases its official plantings report on march 31. agriculture department analysts said next week's figures will likely show a sharp drop in acreage to as low as 65 mln acres, down 22 pct from last year's plantings of 83.3 mln acres. assuming an 18 mln acre drop in plantings, u.s. corn production will also decrease significantly. analysts said 1987 corn production could drop by over one billion bushels to around seven billion bushels. expected signup of up to 90 pct in the 1987 feed grains program, along with 1.9 mln acres enrolled in the conservation program, will cause acreage to plummet, department feedgrain analysts said. "there's no question that there will be a sharp decrease in corn acreage," one said. "it's difficult for any farmer to not go along with the program this year." soybean acreage is also expected to decline this year but at a much slower rate of around four pct, usda analysts said. soybean plantings could drop to 59 mln acres or below, they said, compared to last year's level of 61.5 mln acres. if analysts' unofficial estimates prove correct then the drop in u.s. corn acreage will be the largest since 1983 when farmers idled 22 mln acres in the payment-in-kind program. farmers planted only around 60 mln acres of corn in 1983. a severe drought that summer in major producing states caused yields to tumble and final crop production to total only 4.2 billion bushels. given normal weather conditions this year, usda analysts said the 1987 corn crop could end up around seven billion bushels, down from last year's crop of 8.3 billion bushels. "this kind of acreage reduction will mean a significant reduction in production," an analyst said. a crop of seven billion bushels is close to the annual u.s. corn usage, so surplus stocks, while not decreasing, would not increase significantly, a specialist said. high producing corn belt states are expected to show the greatest acreage reductions, based upon historical participation in government programs, analysts said. in contrast, soybean acreage is likely to be cut the most in marginal producing areas of the southeast and the western corn belt, a usda soybean analyst said. "soybean acreage in the eastern corn belt will not budge," he said. neither does he expect any significant acreage cuts in higher-producing delta areas. soybean production could drop fractionally from last year's 2.0 billion bushels to 1.8 to 1.9 billion, he said. u.s. soybean acreage, after soaring to 71.4 mln acres in 1979 from only 52 mln acres five years prior to that, has steadily declined in the 1980's. u.s. corn acreage, with the exception of 1983, has been in the low to mid 80-mln acre range for the past 10 years. the highest corn plantings reported in the 60 years that usda has kept such records was in 1932 when farmers planted 113 mln acres and obtained average yields of 26.5 bushels per acre. last year u.s. farmers obtained record corn yields averaging 119.3 bushels per acre. "we have absolutely no trouble producing an eight billion bushel crop on only 80 mln acres or so," an analyst said. corn acreage will probably level at around 65 mln acres as long as government program provisions remain the same, analysts said. currently farmers enrolling in the program are required to set aside 20 pct of their base acreage and then are eligible for payments of two dlrs per bushel by idling an additional 15 pct of their acreage. "to get to the pik level of 60 mln acres, we would have to provide more incentives," an analyst said. reuter
0	petroleos de venezuela s.a will announce within two weeks the name of a foreign consortium it has chosen to help exploit the coal deposits at guasare in western zulia state, pdvsa president juan chacin guzman said. chacin told reporters the foreign partner will provide capital as well as technical and marketing expertise to the carbozulia project, which the state oil company will manage. pdvsa officials said that among those who bid for the partnership is a consortium between agip carbone, a subsidiary of italy's ente nazionale idrocarburi (eni), and atlantic richfield <arc> of the united states. minister of energy and mines arturo hernandez grisanti said discussions are currently taking place to finalize the terms of the contract with the foreign partner. pdvsa vice-president pablo reimpell said last week the first shipment of coal from the carbozulia project should be made during the final quarter of 1987, and would measure between 100-150,000 metric tons. plans call for production to eventually reach 500,000 mt annually. reimpell said the original investment in the project will be approximately 8 billion bolivars. reuter
1	portugal may have purchased a 30,000 tonne cargo at its tender today for up to 43,000 tonnes of number two yellow corn (14.5 pct maximum moisture) for arrival by april 30, shipment via gulf ports, u.s. exporters said. reuter
1	taiwan will tender thursday, march 26, for a total of 356,000 tonnes of u.s. number two yellow corn (14.5 pct moisture) for various sept/dec shipments via gulf or pacific northwest ports, u.s. exporters said. reuter
1	sri lanka will tender overnight for 52,500 tonnes of u.s., canadian and/or australian wheats for april 8/16 shipment, under the export enhancement program if u.s. origin, u.s. exporters said. reuter
0	madagascar extended its oil exploration agreement with the u.s. firm amoco corp <an> for 17 months to allow for further studies of the morondava basin on the southwest coast, a government statement said. it said the existing five-year agreement, due to expire this july 24, was extended until the end of 1988 to allow for additional geological and geophysical studies. amoco has so far laid 7,100 km of seismic lines and sunk five exploration wells in the morondava basin. it may drill a further three wells before the end of the extended exploration period, the statement said. madagascar has signed oil exploration agreements with four foreign oil companies since 1981. but despite promising indications of large reserves, no commercial production plans have yet been announced. the foreign firms - amoco, occidental petroleum corp <oxy>, mobil corp <mob> and a unit of <ente nazionale idrocarburi> - are working in partnership with the national military office for strategic industries (omnis). roland ratsimandresy, the director general of omnis, said at a ceremenony to sign the extension of the amoco agreement that his department would intensify oil exploration with its existing partners and would soon offer a new round of exploration licences. reuter
0	abu dhabi's offshore abu al-bukhoosh oilfield in the gulf, shut since an aerial attack last november, will reopen when new anti-aircraft defences are ready, and this could be in the next two months, oil industry sources said. they said the abu dhabi government and compagnie francaise des petroles (total) <tpn.pa>, whose total abu al-bukhoosh subsidiary owns 51 pct of the field, have agreed on the reopening, but that a date has not been definitely fixed. unidentified planes hit the field, 100 miles off abu dhabi, last november 25. the raid killed eight workers and destroyed the main living quarters and a bridge linking a wellhead to the main production platform. western diplomats in the region say iran was responsible but tehran has blamed its gulf war enemy iraq. abu al-bukhoosh was producing 57,000 barrels per day (bpd) at the time of the attack, but the sources said it would resume at a maximum of half that level because of reduced staff and the fact only four of five wellheads were now operable. the sources said only 80 personnel can be housed in remaining accomodations, the sources said. facilities being installed to protect the field include aircraft detection equipment, anti-aircraft missiles, housing for military personnel and helicopter landing pads, the sources said. abu dhabi is the largest oil producer in the united arab emirates, accounting for about 800,000 bpd of its total 1.15 mln bpd production, the sources said. they also said iran was working to reopen its sassan field, part of the same reservoir as abu al-bukhoosh and located only a few miles away. sassan was heavily damaged by an iraqi air raid only 10 days before abu al-bukhoosh was attacked. reuter
0	papua new guinea (png) provides the most exciting new prospect in the asia-pacific region for oil production, energy analyst fereidun fesharaki said here. the recent successful find at iagifu is likely to put png on the list of major oil exporters by the early 1990s, he told the australian petroleum exploration association annual conference. fesharaki, leader of the energy program at the east-west center in honolulu, hawaii, was speaking on the asia-pacific petroleum outlook. with domestic demand of around 12,000 barrels per day (bpd) and prospects of production of over 100,000 bpd by late 1991, png would become an ecuador-level crude exporter, fesharaki said. the iagifu wells in the papuan basin have recorded the best oil flows in more than 60 years of exploration in png. the png government's geological survey in a paper distributed at the conference estimates iagifu reserves at about 500 mln barrels. png enjoys the most liberal tax regime in the region with no secondary taxes, fesharaki said. "we expect a much larger oil search in papua new guinea, and discovery of much larger volumes of oil, similar in quality to (light) bass strait crude," fesharaki said. there are also large pockets of high quality condensates to be produced, notably in the juha field near iagifu which is capable of producing 30,000 to 40,000 bpd, he said. but prices should be somewhat higher than the present levels to justify development of the juha field, he said. the png geological survey paper noted there are five large prospective but little-explored sedimentary basins in png. reuter
0	norway has offered 10 new offshore blocks to foreign and domestic applicants in the first phase of the country's eleventh concession round, government officials said. company shares in each of the licences proposed by the oil and energy ministry are not final. the ministry has given the companies 10 days to accept or decline the proposed shares. french companies ste nationale elf aquitaine <elfp.pa> and total cie francaise des petroles <tpn.pa>, which were expected to receive operatorships following france's agreement last autumn to purchase gas from norway's troll field, were not offered operatorships in this round, industry sources said. three eleventh round blocks were awarded in the haltenbanken exploration tract off central norway, including the smoerbukk west field where den norske stats oljeselskap a/s <stat.ol> (statoil) was appointed operator. statoil will share the licence with subsidiaries of u.s. oil companies tenneco inc <tgt.n> and texas eastern corp <tet.n> and the italian oil company <agip spa>'s norwegian subsidiary. e.i. du pont de nemours <dd.n> subsidiary conoco norway inc was named operator on haltenbanken block 6406/8 and will share the licence with statoil. norsk hydro a/s <nhy.ol> will operate nearby block 6407/10 with partners statoil, norsk agip a/s, royal dutch/shell group's <rd.as> a/s norske shell and <deminex> unit deminex (norge) a/s. statoil has been offered the operatorship on a new block in the relatively unexplored moere south exploration area south of haltenbanken, with a/s norske shell, texas eastern and <petroleo brasileiro sa> (petrobras) also offered stakes in the block. norwegian companies landed operatorships on all six blocks opened in the barents sea area off northern norway. the blocks were awarded in three licenses, each covering two blocks. statoil will head exploration on blocks 7224/7 and 7224/8, sharing the licence with exxon corp's <xon.n> norwegian subsidiary esso norge a/s, the british petroleum co plc's <bp.l> bp petroleum development (norway) ltd, shell, norsk hydro and saga petroleum a/s <sagp.ol>. blocks 7219/9 and 7220/7 were awarded to norsk hydro, the operator, statoil, mobil corp's <mob.n> mobil exploration norway, petrofina sa's <petb.br> norske fina a/s and bp. the third barents sea licence, covering blocks 7124/3 and 7125/1, went to saga petroleum a/s, the operator, statoil, atlantic richfield co's <arc.n> arco norge a/s, total marine norge a/s and amerada hess corp <ahc.n>. the oil ministry withheld awards on four strategic blocks included in the eleventh round's second phase. the ministry is accepting applications for phase two blocks until early april and the awards will likely be announced this summer, officials said. reuter
0	british prime minister margaret thatcher denied in an interview published in saudi arabia today that her government's oil policy contributed to weakness in world oil prices. she said the government was determined not to intervene to influence production decisions by oil companies operating in the north sea. "we believe these must be a matter for the commercial judgment of the oil companies," she told the arabic language daily al-sharq al-awsat in an interview coinciding with a visit to london by king fahd of saudi arabia. thatcher said this policy had not contributed to the fall in oil prices as north sea production was now about the same as in 1984 when prices were close to 30 dlrs a barrel. british production was on a plateau and was unlikely to increase in the future, she said. "we naturally share the concern of saudi arabia and other opec members about the harmful effects of oil market volatility for both producer and consumer countries," thatcher said. "on our part, we are careful to avoid any actions which might add to such volatility." reuter
1	cpc international inc officials said the sale of the company's european corn wet milling business will remove about 700 mln dlrs of debt and liabilities from cpc's balance sheet. they told analysts the deal, expected to close in september, and cash flow from other operations will reduce total debt by about one-third this year. at the end of 1986, cpc's debt totaled about 1.5 billion dlrs. the officials also said the company has no current plans to sell its u.s. or north american corn wet milling businesses. cpc's 1987 capital spending is budgeted at about 250 mln dlrs, down from about 361 mln dlrs last year, the officials told analysts. reuter
0	energy secretary john herrington has proposed several ways to boost u.s. oil production, but he said all would cost the treasury money and will come under close white house scrutiny before action is taken. one measure he said he favored would raise the depletion allowance to 27.5 pct on new oil and gas production as well as production using enhanced extraction methods. herrington said such a plan would cost 200 mln dlrs a year. the white house, reacting, said it did not favor amending the tax code, but would look at the proposal. herrington's proposals to spur production were made along with the release last week of the energy department's report on energy and the national security. the report said u.s. oil imports, rapidly rising, could hit 50 pct by the mid 1990s and have potentially damaging implications for national security. he has said since in speeches and at news conferences that any plan he would back to spur lagging domestic oil production would have to meet three criteria--increase production, not cause economic dislocation, and be low cost to the taxpayer. herrington said an import fee would meet the first test, spurring production but fail the second and third. he said it would raise production and return 120,000 oil workers to their jobs, but at the same time it lifted oil prices, the higher prices would cost 400,000 jobs nationwide and cut the gross national product by 32 billion dlrs. a tax on gasoline, he said, would fail the first criteria by not increasing domestic production. in any case, u.s. officials say, president reagan remains firmly opposed to an import fee and a gasoline tax. options which meet herrington's criteria include: - loan-price guarantees to shield banks from defaults by borrowers because of lower oil prices. it was estimated that if oil fell to five dlrs a barrel it could trigger defaults that could cost the government an estimated 15 billion dlrs. - a five pct tax credit for exploration and development. it would raise oil and gas production the equivalent of 325,000 barrels a day, at a cost of 740 mln dlrs a year. - a five pct credit only for geological and geophysical expenditures. it would increase production by 80,000 barrels a day, at a cost of 65 mln dlrs. - lower bid minimums on outer continental shelf acreage to spur exploration. a drop from the present 150 dlrs per acre for the typical 5,760 acre tract to 25 dlrs per acre would lower the cost of the standard tract lease to 144,000 dlrs. herrington also pressed anew for existing administration proposals to deregulate natural gas, which he said would cut the need for imported oil by 300,000 barrels daily. he also called again for congressional approval to explore off the continental shelf, which may hold more than 12 billion barrels of oil, and the arctic national wildlife refuge, which may hold nine billion barrels. herrington said he understood the reagan's reluctance to amend the newly enacted tax code to fund some of these proposals, but added he hoped his department's energy/security study would make a strong case for the need to help the struggling domestic oil industry. another move herrington said he will press anew, even though it had been rejected earlier by the white house, is to raise the fill-rate for the strategic petroleum reserve to 100,000 barrels a day from its planned 1988 rate of 35,000. this, he said, would further bolster national security in case of an oil-supply disruption. reuter
0	canada's federal government will provide a 350 mln dlr oil industry aid package that includes cash incentives designed to cover one-third of a company's oil and gas exploration and development costs, energy minister marcel masse announced. the aid program will inject about 350 mln dlrs a year into the oil and gas industry and could lead to more than one billion dlrs in new investment, masse told a news conference. the program will affect drilling done anywhere in canada on or after april 1, 1987. masse told reporters that the government's oil industry aid package is aimed at small and medium sized companies. the aid package, called the canadian exploration and development incentive program, will restrict the total payments that any individual company can claim to 10 mln dlrs a year. masse said the program will probably generate new employment equivalent to 20,000 people working for a year. he said oil industry aid is needed because exploration and development spending dropped by at least 50 pct since world oil prices fell during the first half of 1986. energy minister masse said the federal government decided to provide cash incentives so a large number of non-tax paying companies, mainly small canadian firms, will receive the full value of the incentive. such companies would not immediately benefit from tax benefits, he said. the federal government also wanted to deliver an aid program outside the tax system. finance minister michael wilson is now reviewing canada's tax system and plans to announce tax reform proposals later this spring. an important feature of the aid program is a decision to let companies issue flow-through shares, allowing investors to benefit from the subsidy rather than restricting benefits to only participating companies, he said. allowing flow-through shares under the program will make it easier for companies to attract investors in exploration and development, masse said. he told reporters his department is still considering whether to allow partnerships and other entities to qualify for the subsidy. reuter
1	argentine grain producers again reduced their estimates for the total yield of the 1986/87 soybean crop, which will begin to be harvested in mid-april, trade sources said. they said growers now forecast soybean production this season at between 7.5 and 7.8 mln tonnes, down from last week's estimate of 7.7 to eight mln tonnes and the 8.0 to 8.4 mln tonnes forecast in mid-february. the new forecast is still higher than last season's record total production. private sources put 1985/86 production at a record 7.2 to 7.3 mln tonnes -- 4.2 to 6.4 pct lower than the new forecast for the current crop. the official figure for 1985/86 is 7.1 mln tonnes, 5.6 to 9.9 pct below this season's new estimates. growers in the past week discovered more empty soybean pods in the main producing areas of southern cordoba and santa fe provinces and northern buenos aires. the crop since january has been hit by high temperatures and inadequate rainfall. growers fear they may find more empty pods and have to further reduce their forecasts of total yield. the area sown to soybeans this season was a record 3.7 to 3.8 mln hectares, 10.8 to 13.8 pct higher than the 1985/86 record of 3.34 mln hectares. the state of the crop continued to be good in general until last week but intense, heavy rains since could have caused damage in areas where rainfall was higher than 100 mm. where the rains were less heavy they were considered beneficial although too late to improve yield estimates. the rains also benefitted maize and sorghum crops in southern buenos aires province but are not expected to influence production forecasts. in other areas, especially western buenos aires, where rainfall was more than 200 mm, parts of the sunflower, maize and sorghum crops not yet harvested may have been damaged. the coarse grain crop harvest was interrupted last week by rains which also reached over 100 mm in parts of cordoba, la pampa and santa fe and almost 90 mm in parts of entre rios. the area sown with maize this season was between 3.58 and 3.78 mln hectares, two to seven pct less than the 3.85 mln hectares in 1985/86. the yield of 1986/87 maize continued to be forecast at between 9.9 and 10.1 mln tonnes. this estimate is 19.8 to 20.2 pct lower than the 12.4 to 12.6 mln tonnes at which private sources put 1985/86 production and 21.1 to 22.7 pct lower than the official 12.8 mln tonnes. the sunflowerseed harvest has covered 23 to 26 pct of the area sown and continues in parts of central buenos aires although at a standstill elsewhere due to rain and floods. a resumption of full harvesting and assessment of damage is impossible until rains stop and a spell of a week to 10 days of sunshine dries the fields. the area sown this season was 2.0 to 2.2 mln hectares, down 29.9 to 36.3 pct on last year's record 3.14 mln hectares. sunflowerseed 1986/87 production is still forecast at 2.3 to 2.6 mln tonnes, 34.1 to 41.5 pct below the 1985/86 record of 4.1 mln tonnes. the grain sorghum harvest was the least affected by the rains, advancing steadily in santa fe and cordoba and starting in la pampa to cover 14 to 16 pct of the total area sown. the area sown was 1.23 to 1.30 mln hectares, 10.3 to 15.2 pct less than the 1.45 mln hectares the previous season. yield estimates remained at 3.2 to 3.5 mln tonnes, 16.7 to 22 pct down on 1985/86 production of 4.1 to 4.2 mln tonnes. reuter
0	earthquake-stricken ecuador is negotiating with nigeria to have the african country lend it 10,000 barrels per day (bpd) of crude for export, deputy energy minister fernando santos alvite told reuters. he said ecuador was negotiating a shipments schedule and the terms of repaying the loan. ecuador has suspended crude exports for about five months until it repairs a pipeline ruputured by a march five tremor. santos alvite added ecuador is finalizing details for a program under which venezuela would temporarily lend the country 50,000 bpd for export. reuter
0	texaco inc's oil and gas reserves declined in 1986 despite reduced production and upward revisions in the company's previous reserve estimates, its annual report said. the statement of the report's auditor was qualified -- as was the previous one -- because of the unkonwn final impact of the judgement won by pennzoil co <pzl> against texaco on charges texaco interfered with pannzoil's contract to acquire getty oil co. the auditor's point out, as texaco has in the past, the company's loss of any of several pending court decisions in this case could cause it "to face prospects such as having to seek protection of its assets and business pursuant to the bankruptcy and reorganization provisions of chapter 11" of the federal bankruptcy code. commenting on a texas court of appeals ruling which reduced pennzoil's judgement by two billion dlrs, to 9.1 billion dlrs, texaco said it will file a motion for a rehearing by the appeals court no later than march 30. texaco said the proven crude oil reserves of the company and its consolidated subsidiaries totaled 2.54 billion barrels at the end of 1986, down from 2.69 billion a year earlier. however, inclusion of texaco's equity in the eastern hemisphere reserves of a nonsubsidiary company limited the decline to 2.91 billion barrels from 3.00 billion at the end of 1985. worldwide production by the consolidated subsidiaries declined to 341 mln barrels last year from 362 mln in 1985 and upward revisions in previous reserve estimates rose to 143 mln barrels from 117 mln, respectively. texaco said the largest drop in reserves came in the united states -- where the total dropped to 1.46 billion barrels from 1.55 billion. the company said u.s. liquids production averaged 660,000 barrels per day last year, down from 714,000 in 1985, with about 44 pct of the decline -- some 24,000 barrels per day -- representing high-cost production shut-in or curtailed in response to the decline in crude oil prices during 1986. texaco said its natural gas reserves totaled 8.16 trillion cubic feet at year end, down from 8.87 trillion cubic feet at the end of 1985. reuter
0	u.s. oil demand as measured by products supplied rose 0.1 pct in the four weeks ended march 20 to 16.16 mln barrels per day from 16.15 mln in the same period a year ago, the energy information administration (eia) said. in its weekly petroleum status report, the energy department agency said distillate demand was off 0.1 pct in the period to 3.258 mln bpd from 3.260 mln a year earlier. gasoline demand averaged 6.72 mln bpd, off 1.2 pct from 6.80 mln last year, while residual fuel demand was 1.38 mln bpd, off 2.1 pct from 1.41 mln, the eia said. domestic crude oil production was estimated at 8.35 mln bpd, down 7.8 pct from 9.06 mln a year ago, and gross daily crude imports (excluding those for the spr) averaged 3.44 mln bpd, up 16.3 pct from 2.95 mln, the eia said. refinery crude runs in the four weeks were 11.90 mln bpd, up 1.4 pct from 11.74 mln a year earlier, it said. in the first 78 days of the year, refinery runs were up 1.8 pct to an average 12.25 mln bpd from 12.04 mln in the year-ago period, the eia said. year-to-date demand for all petroleum products averaged 16.32 mln bpd, up 1.8 pct from 16.04 mln in 1986, it said. so far this year, distillate demand rose 0.1 pct to 3.31 mln bpd from 3.30 mln in 1986, gasoline demand was 6.60 mln bpd, up 0.1 pct from 6.59 mln, and residual fuel demand fell 0.4 pct to 1.42 mln bpd from 1.43 mln, the eia said. year-to-date domestic crude output was estimated at 8.41 mln bpd, off 7.7 pct from 9.11 mln a year ago, while gross crude imports averaged 3.96 mln bpd, up 28.1 pct from 3.09 mln, it said. reuter
0	unocal corp said it intends to increase its spending for capital projects to 929 mln dlrs in 1987, eight pct more than the 862 mln spent in 1986. the company said in its annual report that it would increase spending for exploration and development of petroleum resources by about three pct to 614 mln dlrs from 1986's 595 mln dlrs, assuming oil prices hold around current levels. the planned spending for exploration and production in 1987 remains well below the 1.1 billion dlrs spent in 1985, unocal said. the company's proved developed and undeveloped reserves of crude oil rose slightly in 1986, unocal said. net crude oil and condensate reserves were 752 mln bbls as of dec 31, 1986, compared to 751 mln bbls at the end of 1985, unocal said. the company said its net crude oil and condensate production averaged 248,200 barrels per day in 1986 compared to 251,300 bpd in 1985. unocal said its worldwide natural gas reserves were 6.07 billion cubic feet in 1986 compared to 1985's 6.19 billion. net natural gas output averaged 976 mln cubic feet per day in 1986, down 10 pct from 1985's 1,084 mln, the company said. unocal said its average sales prices for crude oil was 12.67 dlrs a barrel worldwide in 1986 compared to 23.81 dlrs in 1985, and its average sales price for natural gas was 2.03 dlrs per thousand cubic feet in 1986 against 2.24 dlrs in 1985. average production costs for crude oil and natural gas declined nearly 30 pct to 3.41 dlrs per bbl of oil equivalent in 1986 from 4.81 dlrs in 1985, unocal said. in the annual report, the company called for imposition of an oil import fee by the u.s. government to set a floor price of about 25 dlrs a barrel for crude oil. "simply stabilizing prices at about 18 dlrs per barrel will not materialy slow the drop in u.s. production or the rise in imports," chairman fred hartley said in the annual report. "without decisive action in washington, this nation will once again become a hostage to opec's plans and policies," hartley said. reuter
0	pennzoil co said it had not yet received any "meaningful settlement offer" from texaco inc but added that the company remained willing to consider proposals to settle the 10.2 billion dlr jury judgment it won against texaco. in its newly-released annual report to shareholders, pennzoil said it expected the texas state court judgment, which was upheld by a state appeals court on february 12, to be upheld if appealed again. "to date, pennzoil has yet to receive any meaningful settlement offer from texaco, though it remains open to any realistic effort to settle the matter," pennzoil chairman hugh liedtke said in the annual report. pennzoil also said it had budgeted 212 mln dlrs for capital spending in 1987, a drop from the 233 mln dlrs spent last year. proved u.s. and foreign reserves of natural gas declined to 964 billion cubic feet last year, from 1.01 trillion cubic feet in 1985, because of a virtual halt in its exploration program, pennzoil said. its crude oil reserves dropped to 140 mln barrels from 158 mln barrels in 1985. the houston-based company said it sold an average of 339 mln cubic feet of domestic natural gas each day last year, a 17 pct drop from 1985. the average sales price for gas dropped by 60 cents per mcf to 2.16 dlrs per mcf, pennzoil said. u.s. crude oil and gas liquids production last year fell to an average of 33,290 barrels per day from 34,102 barrels per day in 1985. the company's total revenues in 1986 declined to 482.3 mln dlrs, from 762.5 mln dlrs the previous year. operating income in 1986 fell more than 80 pct, to 38.0 mln dlrs. pennzoil said its goals for 1987 included development of its point arguello oilfield off the california coast, to maintain current production levels in its bluebell-altamont field in utah and to drill for prospects in the gulf of mexico's mobile bay area. "production should begin late in the year from the harvest platform in the santa maria basin offshore california," the company said. "pennzoil's share of this production initially should be five thousand barrels a day, increasing to a peak of 15 thousand barrels a day, net, by 1989." in its sulphur business, pennzoil said production totaled 2.1 mln long tons last year, a decline of 18 pct from 1985. the average sales price also declined, to 138.25 dlrs per long ton from 141.05 dlrs in 1985. "the long term outlook for our sulphur operations remains bright," the company said. "we expect sulphur's pricing structure to strengthen during the current year, probably in the third and fourth quarters." reuter
1	congress, eager to find budget savings, launches a review of the u.s. agriculture department's generic commodity certificate program tomorrow, amid signs usda and the general accounting office, gao, are at odds over how much the program has cost u.s. taxpayers. the gao concluded in a preliminary report last week that payment-in-kind, or pik, certificates cost between five and 20 pct more than cash outlays, administration officials who asked not to be identified said. usda officials, however, took issue with the report, saying it did not take into account storage, handling and transport savings that accrue to the government. the gao then decided to re-examine the costs, sources said. the issue is an important one, because congressional budget committees are known to be considering limiting the use of certificates as a means of cutting spending. agriculture under secretary daniel amstutz and gao senior associate director brian crowley are set to testify before the senate agriculture committee tomorrow. amstutz is expected to tell the committee that there are uncertainties in determining the cost of certificates compared to cash outlays, and that savings to the commodity credit corp, ccc, almost equal costs, department sources said. usda estimates that it costs the government about 75 cents to store, handle and transport each bushel of commodity put in government storage. it was unclear whether the gao, congress' investigative arm, would stick by its original analysis that it costs the government more to use certificates instead of cash in farm price and income support programs, reagan administration sources said. the gao is expected to point out that use of payment-in-kind, pik, certificates has helped relieve tight storage by moving grain that otherwise might not have been sold. the testimony by amstutz and gao senior associate director brian crowley comes as congressional budget committees intensify their efforts to pinpoint ways to cut the federal budget deficit -- including considering limits on the use of pik certificates. the ccc issues dollar-denominated pik certificates, or certs, as a partial substitute for direct cash outlays to farmers or cash subsidies to exporters. certs can be used to repay nonrecourse loans or exchanged for ccc commodities or cash. between april and december 1986, ccc issued 3.8 billion dlrs worth of certificates, according to usda. up to another 6.7 billion dlrs worth could be issued between january and august 1987, according to usda. certs can cost the government more than cash primarily because recipients can use the certificates to pay back government loans at levels below the loan rate. eliminating this practice, called "pik and roll," would save the government 1.4 billion dlrs between 1988-92, according to the congressional budget office, cbo. that estimate, according to a cbo official, was based on an assumption that certificates cost the government about 15 pct more than cash payments. the senate and house budget committees are known to be considering curbs on pik-and-roll transactions among other savings alternatives. the gao last week reached the tentative conclusion that the estimated three billion dlrs of certificates redeemed to date have cost the federal government between 150 mln and 600 mln dlrs, or between five and 20 pct, more than cash outlays, one administration official said. however, the gao has decided to reassess those estimates based in part on usda criticism, department officials said. the broad range of the cost estimate is partly attributable to the different effect certificates can have on market prices over the course of a crop year. usda's economic research service, for example, has found that between june and august last year, the 215 mln bushels of corn exchanged for certificates lowered the price of corn by between 35 and 45 cents per bushel. between september and november, however, certificates had only a marginal impact on corn prices, according to the ers study, obtained by reuters. reuter
0	five regional oil producing nations will gather in caracas tommorrow for a two-day meeting expected to center on ways to combat proposals for a u.s. tax on imported petroleum, the venezuela's ministry of energy and mines said. oil ministers from mexico, trinidad and tobago, ecuador and venezuela will be on hand for the fifth meeting of the informal group of latin american and caribbean petroleum exporters, formed in 1983, it said. colombia will also attend for the first time, as an observer nation, the ministry said. energy and mines minister arturo hernandez grisanti said the conference has no set agenda but one entire session friday will be devoted to proposals for a tax on imported oil. two of the group's members, venezuela and mexico, are second and third largest foreign suppliers of oil to the united states, respectively, following canada. venezuela, concerned about the effect such a tax would have on its exports, undertook a diplomatic push to coordinate strategy against such measures. in february, canadian energy minister marcel masse was invited to caracas for talks with hernandez on proposals for an oil import tax. reuter
1	vietnam has ordered its army to grow more food to ease shortages and meet economic recovery goals set for 1990. the army newspaper quan doi nhan dan, monitored here, said soldiers must work harder to care for rice, vegetables and other crops endangered by the present unusually hot weather. the paper said the 1.6-mln strong regular army contributed less than one pct to the nation's 18.2 mln tonne food output. north vietnam has set a 1990 food target of 23 to 24 mln tonnes. reuter
0	no action has been taken yet on the reagan adminstration's offer to escort kuwaiti oil tankers through the gulf, but the issue is being discussed, u.s. secretary of defence caspar weinberger said. the offer was made to kuwait in light of iran's deployment of chinese-built missiles to cover the entrance to the gulf. weinberger told reporters prior to a speech at texas christian university that he did not think iran and the united states were moving towards a potential conflict, adding that the straits of hormuz at the mouth of the gulf were still "free water." reuter
1	the international wheat council (iwc) lifted its estimate for 1986/87 world wheat and coarse grain production by one mln tonnes to a record 1,377 mln, compared with 1,351 mln tonnes the previous season. in its monthly market report, the iwc said it is leaving unchanged its forecast of world wheat production for the coming 1987/88 season at between 520 and 530 mln tonnes against a record 534 mln in 1986/87. the one mln tonne upward revision in 1986/87 wheat production reflects several minor adjustments. the iwc raised the 1986/87 coarse grain trade figure two mln to 87 mln tonnes. it left wheat trade unchanged at 86 mln. the iwc 1986/87 estimate for world trade in wheat and coarse grain is thus estimated two mln tonnes higher at 173 mln against 169 mln the previous season with the forecast three mln rise in soviet imports offset by small reductions elsewhere. the iwc said the area harvested for wheat in 1987/88 is likely to be down from last year as low world prices and restrictive national policies measures begin to take effect. at least four of the five major exporters expect to see a drop in wheat sowings without offset in other countries. there is still potential for even higher average wheat yields but the iwc said there are increasing signs world output may level off. although it is still early to assess the coarse grain outlook, the iwc said barley acreage is likely to fall in the european community but increase in canada. u.s. maize area is expected lower but oat sowings could rise. after damage to its maize crop last year, the soviet union plans to expand this area by as much as 50 pct to over six mln hectares in a year when many frost damaged wheat fields are likely to be resown to this and other spring crops. improved weather and a further increase in the use of intensive cultivation methods could therefore see a marked rise in soviet maize output in 1987, the iwc said. any reduction in world coarse grain output would be bolstered by the large carryover stocks from 1986/87, the iwc said. it left its estimates of wheat and coarse grain stocks at end of different marketing years unchanged at 178 and 210 mln tonnes, respectively, against 160 and 167 mln a year earlier. after record world durum wheat production of 218.8 mln tonnes last season, the iwc said there are already signs of another large crop this coming season with higher output expected in the ec, canada, the u.s. and north africa. reuter
1	efforts by governments to control wheat surpluses by cutting support prices have met with only partial success, the international wheat council (iwc) says in its latest monthly report. faster results could be achieved by a policy of reducing both price and areas, as employed in the united states, the iwc says in a survey of support prices in the five main wheat exporters - argentina, australia, canada, the ec and the u.s. in some countries, for example australia and argentina, which are highly dependent on wheat shipments for export income, there may be problems in reducing production. a policy of cutting wheat production could lead to unemployment, with job prospects outside agriculture limited. alternative crops may offer inferior returns which could then lead to lost export revenue and balance of payments problems. the iwc outlines three courses of action open to governments in wheat exporting countries. they could continue to support prices in the hope that when the world economy improves demand for wheat will rise and surpluses wil be reduced or eliminated. alternatively, support could be limited to wheat which could be easily sold, without needing to be stored for a long period. this option may prove to be the most politically unattractive and would result in many producers abandoning wheat production, the report said. the third option would be for governments to distinguish between the commercial and social aspects of agriculture, possibly varying support prices according to farm size or overall production. the iwc review covers support prices in the major exporting countries since 1982. at some time during that period all the producers cut support prices in response to growing surpluses. these changes did not always result in lower export subsidies as on several occasions currency fluctuations more than offset lower prices in the domestic currency. for example between 1985/86 and 1986/87 the ec intervention price for bread wheat fell from 209.30 to 179.44 european currency units (ecus). it dollar terms, the currency in which most export transactions are denominated, the intervention price however rose to 193 dlrs from 168. the high cost of supporting farm prices has put a strain on national exchequers and some governments are now searching for ways to cut expenditure, the report says. the proportion of world wheat output produced by the five major exporters declined in the period covered by the survey from 40 pct in 1982 to 35 pct in 1987. this was partly due to increased production in china and india. the period saw an upward trend in yields, although this was countered in the argentina, the u.s. and australia by lower acreages. in argentina a reduction in the sown area of about 20 per cent was put down to low prices causing producers to switch to other enterprises, particularly livestock while lower u.s. acreages are attributed to official incentives. reuter
0	no action has been taken yet on the reagan adminstration's offer to escort kuwaiti oil tankers through the gulf, but the issue is being discussed, u.s. secretary of defence caspar weinberger said. the offer was made to kuwait in light of iran's deployment of chinese-built missiles to cover the entrance to the gulf. weinberger told reporters prior to a speech at texas christian university that he did not think iran and the united states were moving towards a potential conflict, adding that the straits of hormuz at the mouth of the gulf were still "free water." reuter
1	french operators have requested licences to export 675,500 tonnes of maize, 245,000 tonnes of barley, 22,000 tonnes of soft bread wheat and 20,000 tonnes of feed wheat at today's european community tender, traders said. rebates requested ranged from 127.75 to 132.50 european currency units a tonne for maize, 136.00 to 141.00 ecus a tonne for barley and 134.25 to 141.81 ecus for bread wheat, while rebates requested for feed wheat were 137.65 ecus, they said. reuter
1	a large dutch animal feed compounder will begin formal legal proceedings early next month as a test case on the way the ec grain co-responsibility levy is applied, a spokesman for dutch grain and feed trade association, het comite, told reuters. het comite has been co-ordinating national actions against alleged distortions caused by currency factors in the levy and, since december, has lodged more than 80 individual cases with the business appeal court in the hague. the basic complaint is that the levy does not take account of currency cross-rates of exchange and therefore compounders in countries with strong currencies may have to pay more in their own currency than is paid to them by producers in another country. het comite has obtained a temporary agreement that companies can pay the amount they receive toward the levy rather than paying a full guilder amount to the dutch grain commodity board. the spokesman said het comite will provide financial and legal backing to the test case in the business administration court in the hague. oral proceedings are to begin on april 10. the spokesman said het comite finally selected the company for the test case from among the 80 lodged "because the bill (the firm) received from the commodity board for payment of the levy contained significant currency distortions and involved grain from a wide variety of origins." the name of the company is not being made public. the administration court is not expected to make a final ruling on the case in the near future. the het comite spokesman said it was very likely it would refer questions to the appeal court in luxembourg, and "as a result it could easily be another nine to 12 months before the matter is finally resolved." meanwhile, the actions by dutch animal feed compounders are putting pressure on the commodity board to urge the dutch government to follow through on earlier statements and seek a complete review in brussels of the way in which the levy is collected, the spokesman said. het comite, as a member of fefac, the association of european animal feed manufacturers, is also a party to actions protesting the whole levy in the luxembourg appeal court. reuter
1	the senate voted unanimously to seek an expedited u.s. probe of canadian tariffs on corn imports to determine if the united states should retaliate. by 99 to 0, the senate went on record against the 84.9 cents per bushel tariff approved by the canadian import tribunal. the non binding measure asked for a probe by the u.s. trade representative to determine within 30 days whether the tariff violates the general agreement on tariffs and trade, and if so recommend within 60 days to president reagan retaliatory action against canada. reuter
0	canadian oil exports rose 20 pct in 1986 over the previous year to 33.96 mln cubic meters, while oil imports soared 25.2 pct to 20.58 mln cubic meters, statistics canada said. production, meanwhile, was unchanged from the previous year at 91.09 mln cubic feet. natural gas exports plunged 19.4 pct to 21.09 billion cubic meters, while canadian sales slipped 4.1 pct to 48.09 billion cubic meters. the federal agency said that in december oil production fell 4.0 pct to 7.73 mln cubic meters, while exports rose 5.2 pct to 2.84 mln cubic meters and imports rose 12.3 pct to 2.1 mln cubic meters. natural gas exports fell 16.3 pct in the month 2.51 billion cubic meters and canadian sales eased 10.2 pct to 5.25 billion cubic meters. reuter
0	british petroleum plc's plan to pay 7.4 billion dlrs for less than half of standard oil co has signalled higher values in the u.s. oil patch, analysts said. "i think that bp's bid is a very strong affirmation and clear signal that they have confidence in the u.s., and they think the barrel of oil in the ground is going to go higher," said sanford margoshes of shearson lehman brothers inc. bp earlier today said its u.s. unit planned to tender at 70 dlrs per share for the 45 pct of standard it does not already own. "it's a 7.4 billion dlr price that (shows) opec has won the war and oil prices are not going to crack," said prescott, ball and turben analyst bruce lazier. "behind that is a huge implication for the rest of the energy issues out there in the stock market, particularly those that are acquisition targets," lazier said. one of those mentioned by lazier was usx corp, an energy-steel concern which had been courted by investor carl icahn and drew the attention of australian robert holmes a court last year. rumors continue to swirl around its stock. margoshes said he does not foresee major u.s. oil firms falling into takeover situations for several years, with the exception of possibly amerada hess corp <ahc>. he said most of the majors found partners in the last round of matchmaking which ended two years ago, and others restructured to the point that they have become unattractive. u.s. oil stocks rallied in response to the offer. exxon corp <xon> rose 1-1/8 to 88-1/2. chevron corp <chv> jumped 1-1/8 to 58-7/8, and texaco <tx> climbed 1/4 to 37-3/4. unocal corp <ucl> rose 1-3/4, while occidental petroleum corp <oxy> climbed 1-1/8 to 34-3/4. amoco corp <an> rose 1-3/8 to 83-3/4. standard oil's stock was up 6-1/4 in heavy trading to 71-1/8. earlier in the session it had been at a high of 72-1/4. wall street has speculated british petroleum may boost its offer by several dlrs per share, but the company maintained it would not raise the 70 dlr bid. british petroleum stock rose 2-1/4 to 59-5/8. analysts said the fact british petroleum made such a bid in the first place indicates that the british oil giant has changed its outlook for the oil industry. analysts said last year british petroleum held one of the more bearish positions on oil prices. "they said the real price of oil would stay at 15 dlrs (a barrel) for several years, and i think they beat a hasty retreat from that point of view," margoshes said. "they are more appropriately today looking more optimistically. i believe they are looking at 18 dlrs (long-term)...also in their heart of hearts they believe that will be exceeded," margoshes said. the u.s. benchmark crude west texas intermediate was trading today around 18.60 dlrs per barrel. analysts said british petroleum might have been able to buy up the rest of standard oil for about 50 dlrs per share when oil prices were falling last year. they said standard oil's brightest asset is its slightly more than 50 pct ownership of the alaskan prudhoe bay oil field. analysts also said the company has other interests in the alaskan north slope. analysts said the standard investment is extremely attractive to bp because the u.s. is the largest oil market and has hard-to-replace reserves. "i think it just fits in with their long-range plans to increase their position in the u.s. market," dean witter analyst eugene nowak said. analysts said it also raises bp's visibility ahead of the british government's announced disposal of 31.7 pct of bp stock. the u.k. government said it would dispose of the holding sometime in the year beginning april one. after acquiring all of standard, most of bp's reserves would be in the u.s., but only about six pct of its stock is held in the u.s. "the only way they can sell all that stock is to move it into the united states. no other market can handle all that stock," said l.f. rothschild analyst rosario ilacqua. in 1986, standard oil had net losses of 345 mln dlrs on revenues of 10.02 billion dlrs, compared to a profit the year earlier of 308 mln dlrs on revenues of 13.82 billion dlrs. reuter
1	china has switched purchases of u.s. wheat totaling 60,000 tonnes from the 1986/87 season, which began june 1, to 1987/88 season delivery, the u.s. agriculture department said. the department said outstanding wheat sales to china for the current season amount to 90,000 tonnes and sales for delivery in the 1987/88 season amount to 910,000 tonnes. total corn commitments for the 1986/87 season total 1,015,800 tonnes, the department said. reuter
1	french agricultural minister francois guillaume warned that france would flatly reject proposed reforms of the european community, ec, cereals, sugar and oilseeds sectors, which he said would disrupt these markets. the ec commission's proposals to shorten the intervention period and lower monthly premiums for cereals and increase the financial burden on the sugar producers will also result in lower real prices for producers, he told farmers here. "i give you my word that france, while it will not reject technical adjustments or serious discussion, will simply reply in the negative to these bad reforms," guillaume told the annual conference of the country's major farm union, fnsea (federation nationale des syndicats dexploitants agricoles). community agricultural ministers are due to meet again monday to try and agree a package of reforms to curb spiralling ec output and fix farm prices for 1987/88. relations between the government and farmers have become strained in france in recent months. there have been sporadic but frequent demonstrations by farmers protesting over sharp falls in meat and pork prices and further cutbacks in community milk output. but guillaume's warning that he would reject reorganisation of the ec cereal and sugar markets -- france being a major producer of both crops -- won him warm applause from the fnsea's farmers. his pledge to fight the ec proposals and push for the complete dismantling of the system of cross border taxes designed to smooth out currency differences known as monetary compensatory amounts, mca's, however, are unlikely to avoid further protests by producers. farm leader raymond lacombe said the union planned to go ahead with a series of major protests both in france and abroad against the ec commission's proposals to overhaul the farm sector. "the minister's proposals back up our determination to organise union action in the coming weeks," he told reporters, adding that this could also act in guillaume's favour on a ministerial level. guillaume was head of the fnsea for many years before being appointed farm minister last spring. lacombe refused to say whether the farmers felt that guillaume was doing a good job as farm minister. there have been certain advances on cutting production costs, reducing fiscal costs and awarding drought aid, but there are still areas where more could be done such as on farmers' indebtedness, he said. guillaume told the conference the government will make available 2.4 billion francs (396 mln dlrs) to help producers reduce milk output and to encourage older farmers to retire. the government has already announced financial aid for the milk sector and it was not clear how much of the package announced today was new aid, lacombe said. reuter
1	there were no shipments of u.s. grain or soybeans to the soviet union in the week ended march 19, according to the u.s. agriculture department's latest export sales report. the ussr has purchased 2.40 mln tonnes of u.s. corn for delivery in the fourth year of the u.s.-ussr grain agreement. total shipments in the third year of the u.s.-ussr grains agreement, which ended september 30, amounted to 152,600 tonnes of wheat, 6,808,100 tonnes of corn and 1,518,700 tonnes of soybeans. reuter
1	corn sales of 2,806,300 tonnes in the week ended march 19 were the highest level since mid-november, 1979, the u.s. agriculture department said. the department said the ussr dominated the week's activity with purchases of 1.4 mln tonnes (which were earlier reported under the daily reporting system). other large increaes were posted for japan and unknown destinations, it said. taiwan purchased 296,300 tonnes for the 1986/87 season and 170,000 tonnes for the 1987/88 season, it said. wheat sales of 317,200 tonnes for the current season and 125,000 tonnes for the 1987/88 season were down about one-third from the preceding week and the four-week average. wheat sales to china of 60,000 tonnes were switched from 1986/87 to the 1987/88 season, it noted. soybean sales of 483,100 tonnes were 11 pct above the prior week and two-thirds above the four-week average. japan, the netherlands, mexico and portugal were the main buyers, the department said. soybean cake and meal sales of 289,400 tonnes were two-thirds above the previous week and the largest of the marketing year, with venezuela the dominant purchaser. sales activity in soybean oil resulted in decreases of 4,400 tonnes, as reductions for unknown destinations more than offset increases for canada, the dominican republic and panama, the department said. cotton sales of 57,900 running bales -- 43,800 bales for the current year and 14,200 bales for the 1987/88 season -- were off 25 pct from the previous week and 50 pct from the four-week average. turkey, thailand, south korea and canada were the major buyers for the current season, while thailand, britain and japan were the major purchasers from the upcoming season, the department said. sorghum sales of 178,800 tonnes were two-thirds above the prior week and 75 pct over the four-week average. venezuela was the leading buyer it said. sales of 41,800 tonnes of barley were 10 times the previous week and 10 pct greater than the four-week average. israel, cyprus and saudi arabia were the main buyers, it said. reuter
0	energy and mines minister arturo hernandez grisanti today told a meeting of regional oil exporters the next few months will be critical to efforts to achieve price recovery and stabilize the market. hernandez said while opec and non-opec nations have already made some strides in their efforts to strengthen the market, the danger of a reversal is always present. "march and the next two or three months will be a really critical period," hernandez said. he said, "we will be able to define a movement, either towards market stability and price recovery or, depending on the market, a reversal." earlier this week, hernandez said venezuela's oil price has averaged just above 16 dlrs a barrel for the year to date. if opec achieves its stated goal of an 18 dlrs a barrel average price, he said, venezuela's should move up to 16.50 dlrs. hernandez spoke today at the opening of the fifth ministerial meeting of the informal group of latin american and caribbean oil exporters, formed in 1983. ministers from member states ecuador, mexico, trinidad-tobago and venezuela are attending the two day conference, while colombia is present for the first time as an observer. hernandez defined the meeting as an informal exchange of ideas about the oil market. however, the members will also discuss ways to combat proposals for a tax on imported oil currently before the u.s. congress. following the opening session, the group of ministers met with president jaime lusinchi at miraflores, the presidential palace. the delegations to the conference are headed by hernandez of venezuela, energy minister javier espinosa of ecuador, energy minister kelvin ramnath of trinidad-tobago, jose luis alcudiai, assistant energy secretary of mexico and energy minister guilermno perry rubio of colombia. reuter
0	brazilian crude oil and liquefied natural gas production fell to an average 583,747 barrels per day in february from 596,740 in the same 1986 month, the state oil company petrobras said. the drop was due to operating problems in the campos basin, the country's main producing area, where output was down to 346,011 bpd from 357,420, a petrobras statement said. consumption of oil derivatives totalled 1.14 mln bpd in february, 16.7 pct up on february last year but down from the record 1.22 mln bpd used in october last year. use of alcohol fuel in february was 208,600 bpd, 42 pct above february, 1986. reuter
0	top executives with tenneco corp <tgt> and sabine corp <sab> said they expected world oil prices to gradually increase over the next two years as u.s. reliance on imports of oil from the middle east grows. "i believe we have bottomed out and can look forward to a trend of gradually increasing prices," c.w. nance, president of tenneco oil exploration and production, told a meeting of the petroleum equipment suppliers association. nance predicted that by 1990, the organization of producing and exporting countries would be producing at the rate of 80 pct of capacity. the gain will come largely through increased imports to the united states, he said. "they will be able to raise the price again but i do not think they will raise it as much as they did in 1979," nance said. he did not say how much of a price hike he expected. andrew shoup, chairman of dallas-based sabine, predicted that world oil prices would increase from a range of 15 to 20 dlrs a barrel in 1987 to a range of 17 to 22 dlrs a barrel in 1988. natural gas prices, shoup said, should similarly climb from a range of 1.30 to 1.70 dlrs per mcf this year to between 1.50 and 1.90 dlrs per mcf in 1988. "fuel switching could help us as much as five pct in increased demand," shoup said, referring to the gas industry's outlook for 1987. repeal of the fuel use act, a federal law prohibiting the use of natural gas in new manufacturing plants and utilities, could increase demand for gas by as much as 15 pct, he said. tenneco's nance also said that some u.s. cities may experience peak day shortages in natural gas supplies next winter because of the industry's reduced deliverability. tenneco's gas deliverability, for example, dropped by 20 pct during 1986, he said. "this does not mean the gas bubble is gone," nance said. "we believe gas prices have bottomed out. the real question is how broad the valley is -- is it one year, two years or three years before we start to climb out?" j.c. walter of <walter oil and gas corp>, said the recent improvement in oil prices was not enough for independent producers to begin new onshore drilling projects. "if crude oil stays below 20 dlrs a barrel and 1.50 dlr per mcf for natural gas prevails, the prospects for onshore exploration at deeper depths in the texas gulf coast by independents in the 1990s are pretty dismal," walter said. he suggested that some independents may instead turn to exploration in shallow federal offshore leases. farm-out agreements, cheap rig rates and less competition have held finding costs in those areas to five or six dlrs a barrel, walter said. reuter
1	sri lankan food department officials said the u.s. department of agriculture rejected a u.s. firm's offer of 80 u.s. dlrs per tonne caf to supply 52,500 tonnes of soft wheat to colombo from the pacific northwest. they said sri lanka's food department subsequently made a counter-offer to five u.s. firms to buy wheat at 85 u.s. dlrs caf for april 8-16 delivery. the company which obtains usda approval for the proposed price must inform the department before 1330 gmt, they said. reuter
1	the joint committee of taiwan's maize importers awarded contracts to five u.s. companies for seven shipments totalling 340,000 tonnes of maize for delivery between september 1 and december 20, a committee official said. united grain corp of oregon won two contracts for the supply of 110,000 tonnes, priced between 92.44 and 96.00 dlrs per tonne, for september 1-15 and november 5-20 delivery. cargill inc of minnesota also took two shipments totalling 110,000 tonnes, priced between 93.45 and 94.65 dlrs per tonne, for october 1-15 and december 5-20 delivery. adm export co of minnesota received a 54,000 tonne cargo, at 93.75 dlrs per tonne, for november 1-15 delivery. cigra inc of chicago won a contract to supply 33,000 tonnes, at 96.89 dlrs per tonne, for november 25-december 10 delivery. elders grain inc of kansas took a 33,000 tonne shipment, at 96.06 dlrs per tonne, for december 1-15 delivery. all shipments are c and f taiwan. reuter
1	the south african government's maize production estimate of 7.8 mln tonnes for the current year is "rather too conservative," leading grain and produce merchants kahn and kahn pty ltd said. the company, in a detailed report, estimated the harvest as high as 8.3 mln tonnes and said if this forecast is met the ostensible surplus for export will be approximately 2.25 mln tonnes. "this paradoxically is creating a problem for the maize board," kahn and kahn said. it said the maize export price currently is depressed and the board is "probably confronted with the necessity to maintain or slightly increase the internal price of maize again...to offset the ostensible loss which must be faced" on exporting surplus amounts. reuter
